Since 1860, and more recently in 1972 with the Atkin’s diet, low carbohydrate
(low-carb) diets have been a strategy for weight loss.  Today, there continues to
be an interest in low-carb approaches such as Atkins, Banting, ketogenic, and
South Beach.  While all low carbohydrate approaches reduce the overall intake of 
carbohydrates, there is no clear consensus on what defines a low-carb diet. 
There are three macronutrients—carbohydrates (4kcal/gm), fat (9kcal/gm) and
protein (4kcal/gm) found in food.  Therefore, studies have defined low
carbohydrate as a percent of daily macronutrient intake or total daily
carbohydrate load.  We will define it here as: 1. Very low-carbohydrate (< 10%
carbohydrates) or 20-50 gm/day. 2. Low-carbohydrate (<26% carbohydrates) or less 
than < 130 gm/day. 3. Moderate-carbohydrate (26-44%). 4. High-carbohydrate (45%
or greater). For reference, the Institute of Medicine proposes Americans obtain
45-65% of calories from carbohydrates.[1]  This article will review the evidence 
and effectiveness of low-carb approaches in clinical medicine.
EOF
To evaluate the effects of including extra alfalfa hay in high concentrate diets 
fed to beef heifers on intake, average daily gain (ADG), gain to feed ratio
(G:F), and carcass and meat quality, we used 24 Simmental heifers (initial BW
235.6 ± 4.19 kg). Heifers were blocked in 4 BW blocks and allotted in groups of 3
in a randomized block design with 2 treatments and 12 heifers per treatment.
Treatment diets offered as total mixed ration (TMR) were: a) TMR with 10% barley 
straw (BS), considered the control diet, and b) TMR with 19% alfalfa hay (AH).
The experiment was performed over 4 28-d experimental periods, and we took
measurements in the last week of each period. After this period of performance
control, heifers were fed the corresponding diet until each BW block reached the 
target weight of 400 kg on average. Feed intake and ADG were greater for AH than 
BS (9.5 vs 8.4 kg/d, and 1.45 vs 1.29 kg/d, respectively; P < 0.05), but G:F was 
unaffected by diet (P > 0.10). Diet did not affect hot carcass weight, dressing
percentage, backfat color, pH and meat color, or carcass grade. The sixth rib was
dissected to determine the proportion of fat, lean and bone, which were
unaffected by diet. Diet did not affect the Longissimus muscle composition in
water, protein, collagen, intramuscular fat, and cholesterol. The intramuscular
fat proportion of C18:1 n-7 was greater in BS than in AH (P = 0.016), whereas the
proportion of C18:3 n-3 tended to be greater in AH than in BS (P = 0.09). When
fatty acid concentration was expressed as g per 100 g of Longissimus muscle,
these differences disappeared, and only the content of C15:0 tended to be greater
(P = 0.08) in BS than in AH. Meat characteristics evaluated by trained panelists 
did not differ in toughness, chewiness, juiciness, odor, taste and overall
acceptability, and there were no differences between diets in Warner-Bratzler
shear force values after 3 or 10 d of ageing (P > 0.10). In summary, heifers fed 
TMR with alfalfa hay at 19% of inclusion showed a greater feed intake and ADG
than those fed barley straw at 10% of inclusion, but without affecting G:F ratio.
However, this extra alfalfa hay was not sufficient to cause any relevant change
in the carcass and meat quality of the heifers fed this diet.
EOF
This study assessed the effect of Kaempferia parviflora, also known as black
ginger (BG), and its ethanol extract (BGE) on peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptor (PPAR) γ agonistic activity, glucose tolerance, fat accumulation, and
lipids-induced hypertriglyceridemia in mice. PPARγ ligand-binding capacity in
vitro and polymethoxy flavone contents were highly observed in organic solvent
extracts. In an animal experiment A, male diabetic Nagoya-Shibata-Yasuda mice
were divided into five dietary groups and fed each diet for 8 weeks: AIN-93G diet
(low-fat [LF] diet), high-fat (HF) diet, HF diet supplemented with 1% BG, HF diet
supplemented with 0.19% BGE, and HF diet supplemented with pioglitazone (PPARγ
agonist, 3 mg/kg/day) as a PPARγ agonistic positive control. As determined from
glucose and insulin tolerance tests, plasma glucose levels were improved in the
BG and BGE groups. The BGE extract suppressed fat accumulation in adipose
tissues, liver, and muscles without changing the plasma adiponectin level. In an 
animal experiment B, in order to investigate the effect of BG and BGE on
lipid-induced hypertriglyceridemia, male ddY mice were divided into three test
groups: control, BG-administered group (500 mg/kg), and BGE-administered group
(100 mg/kg). The plasma triacylglycerol level was not different among the groups 
during the lipids administration test. These results conclude that the BGE
extract containing several kinds of polymethoxy flavones showed PPARγ
ligand-binding capacity in vitro and prevented obesity and insulin resistance
independent of adiponectin secretion in mice. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Kaempferia
parviflora, also known as black ginger (BG), is often used as a folk medicine and
a functional food material to prevent metabolic syndrome mainly in Asian regions.
Here, we have clarified that ethanol extract from BG (BGE) contains several kinds
of polymethoxy flavones to show PPARγ ligand-binding capacity and is an active
extract for the improvement of obesity and insulin resistance. The BGE is
expected to be applied for functional food materials in health food markets.
Also, polymethoxy flavones to show PPARγ ligand-binding capacity can be generally
applied as a physiological active compound of functional food supplements.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome is an agglomeration of disorders including obesity, diabetes
and cardiovascular diseases and characterized as chronic mild inflammation which 
elevates the circulatory inflammatory markers. This could be due to mitochondrial
dysfunction, oxidative stress and hypoxia as a consequence of high fat diet (HFD)
intake. The present study focuses on the effects of HFD on lactate and
mitochondrial metabolism as well as tissue dependent changes in glucose
transporter (GLUT) expression in liver, skeletal muscles and adipose tissue of
mouse. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and mitochondrial dysfunction established the 
link between the occurrences of metabolic stress due to HFD. In this work, it was
observed that chronic HFD administration aggravated the metabolic alterations by 
causing reduced ATP production, imbalanced oxidative stress and altered class 1
GLUTs expression. Chronic HFD significantly reduced (p < 0.001) the superoxide
dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) activities alongside elevated liver injury
markers AST and ALT. This in turn causes decreased ATP/ADP ratio, mitochondrial
dysfunction and exacerbated LDH levels. This imbalance further led to altered
GLUT expression in hepatic cells, adipose tissue and skeletal muscles. HFD
significantly (p < 0.001) upregulated the GLUT 1 and 3 expressions while
significant downregulated (p < 0.001) GLUT 2 and 4 expression in liver, skeletal 
muscles and white adipose tissue. These results revealed the link between class 1
GLUTs, mitochondrial dysfunction and HFD-induced metabolic disorder. It can be
concluded that HFD impacts mitochondrial metabolism and reprograms
tissue-dependent glucose transporter.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of physiologic
ischemia training (PIT) on the proliferation of endothelial progenitor cells
(EPCs) and the corresponding changes in the influencing factors in
atherosclerotic rabbits, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and 
nitric oxide (NO).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighteen rabbits were assigned randomly to three groups: a
high-fat diet (HD) group, an HD-with-training (HT) group, and a control group.
Rabbits in the HD and HT groups were fed high-fat food and those in the HT group 
were administered PIT from the seventh week onward. Atherosclerotic plaques in
the thoracic aorta were stained with Oil Red O and measured by Image-Pro Plus
6.0; VEGF expression was measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and 
real-time PCR to determine both protein and mRNA levels. EPCs were counted using 
a fluorescence-activated cell sorter; NO in plasma was measured by the Griess
reaction; and the levels of blood lipids were measured using a biochemical
analyzer.
RESULTS: More lipid-containing lesions were found in the HD group than in the HT 
group (P<0.01), whereas atherosclerotic plaques were not observed in the control 
group. In addition, the expression of VEGF, production of NO, and levels of blood
lipids were consistent with the proportion of plaques. It is noteworthy that the 
proliferation of EPCs increased in the HT group throughout the 10 weeks, whereas 
those in the control and HD groups increased in the first 6 weeks and declined
during the 10th week (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: PIT may prevent the development of aortic atherosclerosis by
promoting the proliferation of EPCs in atherosclerotic rabbits.This is an
open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution-Non Commercial-No Derivatives License 4.0 (CCBY-NC-ND), where it is
permissible to download and share the work provided it is properly cited. The
work cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission from
the journal. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a public
health problem presenting one of the most important common forms of liver
diseases worldwide. This study was carried out to investigate the protective
effect of two functional foods in form of bread containing purslane seeds meal
and garden cress seeds against NAFLD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: High fat and high cholesterol diet were used for induction
of NAFLD in rats for 6 weeks. Plasma lipid profile (total cholesterol,
triglycerides, high density lipoprotein-cholesterol and low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol, hepatic lipid profile (total fat, cholesterol,
triglycerides), malondialdehyde (MDA), as well as liver (AST, ALT, total and
direct bilirubin) and kidney (creatinine and urea) functions were assessed.
Histological examination of liver tissue was carried out.
RESULTS: Results revealed that significant elevation in plasma and liver lipid
profiles, MDA, liver enzymes (AST and ALT), bilirubin (total and direct) and
kidney function (creatinine and urea) were observed in NAFLD control compared to 
normal control. Feeding rats on diet containing functional food I and II
(purslane and garden cress bread, respectively) showed significant improvement in
all the studied parameters with remarkable effect regards to functional food I
(purslane bread).
CONCLUSION: Purslane bread and garden cress bread as functional foods prepared in
the present study prevent weight gain, improve plasma lipid profile and prevent
hepatic lipid accumulation effectively in NAFLD model in rats. Also decreased
lipid peroxidation, improve liver and kidney functions and possess hypoglycemic
effect. Purslane bread was superior in the prevention of hepatic lipid
accumulation.
EOF
Obesity, air pollution, and exercise induce alterations in the heat shock
response (HSR), in both intracellular 70 kDa heat shock proteins (iHSP70) and the
plasmatic extracellular form (eHSP72). Extra-to-intracellular HSP70 ratio
(H-index = eHSP70/iHSP70 ratio) represents a candidate biomarker of subclinical
health status. This study investigated the effects of moderate- and
high-intensity exercise in the HSR and oxidative stress parameters, in obese mice
exposed to fine particulate matter (PM2.5). Thirty-day-old male isogenic
B6129F2/J mice were maintained for 16 weeks on standard chow or high-fat diet
(HFD). Then, mice were exposed to either saline or 50 μg of PM2.5 by intranasal
instillation and subsequently maintained at rest or subjected to moderate- or
high-intensity swimming exercise. HFD mice exhibited high adiposity and glucose
intolerance at week 16th. HFD mice submitted to moderate- or high-intensity
exercise were not able to complete the exercise session and showed lower levels
of eHSP70 and H-index, when compared to controls. PM2.5 exposure modified the
glycaemic response to exercise and modified hematological responses in HFD mice. 
Our study suggests that obesity is a critical health condition for exercise
prescription under PM2.5 exposure.
EOF
Background: African American breast cancer survivors have a higher incidence of
estrogen receptor negative and basal-like (e.g., triple negative) tumors, placing
them at greater risk for poorer survival when compared to women of other racial
and ethnic groups. While access to equitable care, late disease stage at
diagnosis, tumor biology, and sociodemographic characteristics contribute to
health disparities, poor lifestyle characteristics (i.e., inactivity, obesity,
and poor diet) contribute equally to these disparities. Lifestyle interventions
hold promise in shielding African American survivors from second cancers,
comorbidities, and premature mortality, but they are often underrepresented in
studies promoting positive behaviors. This review examined the available
literature to document health behaviors and lifestyle intervention (i.e.,
obesity, physical activity, and sedentary behavior) studies in African American
breast cancer survivors. Methods: We used PubMed, Academic Search Premier, and
Scopus to identify cross-sectional and intervention studies examining the
lifestyle behaviors of African American breast cancer survivors. Identified
intervention studies were assessed for risk of bias. Other articles were
identified and described to provide context for the review. Results: Our
systematic review identified 226 relevant articles. The cross-sectional articles 
indicated poor adherence to physical activity and dietary intake and high rates
of overweight and obesity. The 16 identified intervention studies indicated
reasonable to modest study adherence rates (>70%), significant reductions in
weight (range -1.9 to -3.6%), sedentary behavior (-18%), and dietary fat intake
(range -13 to -33%) and improvements in fruit and vegetable intake (range +25 to 
+55%) and physical activity (range +13 to +544%). The risk of bias for most
studies were rated as high (44%) or moderate (44%). Conclusions: The available
literature suggests that African American breast cancer survivors adhere to
interventions of various modalities and are capable of making modest to
significant changes. Future studies should consider examining (a) mediators and
moderators of lifestyle behaviors and interventions, (b) biological outcomes, and
(c) determinants of enhanced survival in this population.
EOF
Chronic low-grade inflammation in visceral adipose tissues triggers the
development of obesity-related insulin resistance, leading to the metabolic
syndrome, a serious health condition with higher risk of cardiovascular disease, 
diabetes, and stroke. In the present study, we investigated whether
Sprouty-related EVH1-domain-containing protein 2 (Spred2), a negative regulator
of the Ras/Raf/ERK/MAPK pathway, plays a role in the development of high fat diet
(HFD)-induced obesity, adipose tissue inflammation, metabolic abnormalities, and 
insulin resistance. Spred2 knockout (KO) mice, fed with HFD, exhibited an
augmented body weight gain, which was associated with enhanced adipocyte
hypertrophy in mesenteric white adipose tissue (mWAT) and deteriorated
dyslipidemia, compared with wild-type (WT) controls. The number of infiltrating
macrophages with a M1 phenotype, and the crown-like structures, composed of
macrophages surrounding dead or dying adipocytes, were more abundant in Spred2
KO-mWAT compared to in WT-mWAT. Exacerbated adipose tissue inflammation in Spred2
KO mice led to aggravated insulin resistance and fatty liver disease. To analyze 
the mechanism(s) that caused adipose tissue inflammation, cytokine response in
mWAT was investigated. Stromal vascular fraction that contained macrophages from 
Spred2 KO-mWAT showed elevated levels of tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and
monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) compared with those from WT-mWAT.
Upon stimulation with palmitate acid (PA), bone marrow-derived macrophages
(BMDMs) derived from Spred2 KO mice secreted higher levels of TNFα and MCP-1 than
those from WT mice with enhanced ERK activation. U0126, a MEK inhibitor, reduced 
the PA-induced cytokine response. Taken together, these results suggested that
Spred2, in macrophages, negatively regulates high fat diet-induced obesity,
adipose tissue inflammation, metabolic abnormalities, and insulin resistance by
inhibiting the ERK/MAPK pathway. Thus, Spred2 represents a potential therapeutic 
tool for the prevention of insulin resistance and resultant metabolic syndrome.
EOF
In this study, we evaluated the expression and function of chemerin and CMKLR1 in
the ovaries and granulosa cells of high-fat diet-induced obese (OB) mice.
In vivo, chemerin/CMKLR1 system was upregulated in the serum, ovaries, and
granulosa cells of OB mice compared with those in control mice. Apoptotic ovarian
follicles, oxidative stress, and apoptosis biomarkers were also increased in the 
ovaries of OB mice. In vitro, mouse granulosa cells (mGCs) were cultured and
treated with different concentrations of chemerin to investigate the effects of
chemerin on viability, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and apoptosis and on the
phosphorylation of AKT, AMP-activated protein kinase α (AMPKα), and nuclear
factor-κB p65. Chemerin suppressed mGC viability with or without gonadotrophin
and induced ROS accumulation and apoptosis in mGCs. Moreover, AMPKα and p65 were 
activated by chemerin, whereas AKT was suppressed. These changes in
phosphorylation were blocked with CMKLR1 knockdown. Our findings showed that
chemerin contributed to ROS accumulation and apoptotic cell death through three
signaling pathways, suggesting that upregulation of chemerin and CMKLR1 may
explain the imbalance of oxidative stress and apoptosis in the ovaries of OB
mice.
EOF
Excessive consumption of industrialized food and beverages is a major etiologic
factor in the epidemics of obesity and associated metabolic diseases because
these products are rich in fat and sugar. In addition, they contain food contact 
materials and environmental pollutants identified as metabolism disrupting
chemicals. To evaluate the metabolic impact of these dietary threats
(individually or combined), we used a male mouse model of chronic exposure to a
mixture of low-dose archetypal food-contaminating chemicals that was added in
standard or high-fat, high-sucrose (HFHS) diet. Specifically, the mixture
contained bisphenol A, diethylhexylphthalate,
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxine and polychlorinated biphenyl 153. Exposure
lasted from 5 to 20 weeks of age. Metabolic exploration was conducted setting the
basis of candidate gene expression mRNA analyses in liver, jejunum and adipose
tissue depots from 20 week-old mice. Strong metabolic deleterious effects of the 
HFHS diet were demonstrated in line with obesity-associated metabolic features
and insulin resistance. Pollutant exposure resulted in significant changes on
plasma triglyceride levels and on the expression levels of genes mainly encoding 
xenobiotic processing in jejunum; estrogen receptors, regulators of lipoprotein
lipase and inflammatory markers in jejunum and adipose tissues as well as
adipogenesis markers. Importantly, the impact of pollutants was principally
evidenced under standard diet. In addition, depending on nutritional conditions
and on the metabolic tissue considered, the impact of pollutants could mimic or
oppose the HFHS effects. Collectively, the present study extends the cocktail
effect concept of a low-dosed pollutant mixture and originally points to
tissue-specificity responsiveness especially in jejunum and adipose tissues.
EOF
The current study sought to understand how long-term exposure to diets high in
saturated fat and refined sugar affected impulsive choice behavior,
discrimination abilities, incentive motivation, food preferences, and liking of
fat and sugar in male rats. The results showed that 8 weeks of dietary exposure
impaired impulsive choice behavior; rats exposed to diets high in processed fat
or sugar were more sensitive to changes in delay, a marker of impulsivity. For
the high-fat group, these deficits in impulsive choice may stem from poor time
discrimination, as their performance was impaired on a temporal discrimination
task. The high-fat group also showed reduced magnitude sensitivity in the
impulsive choice task, and they earned fewer rewards during lever press training 
indicating potentially reduced incentive motivation. The high-fat group also
developed a preference for high-fat foods compared to the chow and high-sugar
group who both preferred sugar. In contrast, dietary exposure did not alter the
liking of fat or sugar as measured by a taste reactivity task. Together, the
results suggest that the alterations in impulsive choice, time discrimination,
incentive motivation, and food preferences induced by consumption of a high-fat
diet could make individuals vulnerable to overeating, and thus obesity.
EOF
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder
characterized by hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. It has
broad occurrence worldwide, affecting millions of people, and can cause serious
complications. The olive (Olea europaea L.) has important pharmacological
functions, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and hypoglycemic activities.
Olive leaves are used in traditional medicine for diabetes and hypertension.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the effect of the ethanolic extract of olive leaves
(EEOL) on the metabolism of rats with diabetes induced by a high-fat diet and low
dose of streptozotocin (STZ).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male Wistar rats were either given normal feed or a
high-fat diet (70% standard laboratory feed, 15% sucrose, 10% lard and 5% yolk
powder) for four weeks, followed by administration of STZ (35mg/kg, via ip).
Animals with fasting glucose levels above 200mg/dL were considered diabetic.
Animals were divided into 5 groups, which received ethanol (10mL/kg), metformin
(250mg/kg), or EEOL at doses of 200 and 400mg/kg during 10 weeks by oral gavage. 
Blood samples were used to measure hematological and biochemical parameters, and 
kidneys were removed for posterior analysis. Body weight was recorded weekly.
RESULTS: A significant decrease in body weight was observed among diabetic
animals treated with ethanol and EEOL compared to the control group. Moreover,
animals treated with EEOL showed an improvement in glucose levels and in levels
of inflammatory and metabolic markers when compared to diabetic animals.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate a potential anti-diabetic activity of olive
leaves, however more studies are needed to validate clinical effects.
EOF
 AIM: The TCF7L2 gene variant rs7903146 has the largest effect on type 2 diabetes 
risk reported in genome-wide association studies, however its role in adipose
tissue development and function is unknown. We investigate the association
between gene variant rs7903146 and metabolic parameters and examine in vitro and 
ex vivo gene expression of TCF7L2 in human adipose tissue and progenitor cells
from two independent populations of young healthy men with increased risk of type
2 diabetes due to low birth weight (LBW).
DESIGN: Adipose tissue biopsies were excised from 40 healthy young men with low
and normal birth weights (NBW) after a control and 5-day high-fat overfeeding
diet. In another cohort including 13 LBW and 13 NBW men, adipocyte progenitor
cells were isolated and cultivated. Transcriptome-wide expression was performed
on RNA extracted from biopsies or cell cultures.
RESULTS: Diet-induced peripheral insulin resistance is more pronounced in
carriers of the T-risk allele rs7903146, whereas no association with hepatic
insulin resistance was shown. TCF7L2 expression increased during adipogenesis in 
isolated preadipocytes from both LBW and NBW men (p < 0.001) and correlated
positively with markers of progenitor cell proliferation and maturation capacity.
In the mature adipose tissue, LBW men had lower expression of TCF7L2 compared to 
NBW men at baseline (p = 0.03) and TCF7L2 expression was suppressed by short-term
overfeeding in NBW men (p = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest a regulation of TCF7L2 expression during
adipogenesis and in mature adipose tissue upon overfeeding, and further that
young men exposed to an adverse intrauterine environment have reduced mature
adipose tissue TCF7L2 expression.
EOF
Fibronectin type III domain containing 5 (Fndc5) is a transmembrane protein
highly expressed in the skeletal muscle. It was reported that exercise promotes
the shedding of the extracellular domain of Fndc5, generating a circulating
peptide (irisin) that cross-talks to adipose tissues to convert lipid-storing
white adipocytes to energy-catabolizing beige adipocytes. However, the
requirement of Fndc5 in mediating the beneficial effect of exercise remains to be
determined. Here, we created a mouse model of Fndc5 mutation through
transcription activator-like effector nuclease-mediated DNA targeting. The Fndc5 
mutant mice have normal skeletal muscle development, growth, regeneration, as
well as glucose and lipid metabolism at resting state, even when fed a high-fat
diet. In response to running exercise, however, the Fndc5 mutant mice exhibit
reduced glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity and have lower maximal oxygen
consumption compared with the exercised wild-type mice. Mechanistically, Fndc5
mutation attenuates exercise-induced browning of white adipose tissue that is
crucial for the metabolic benefits of physical activities. These data provide
genetic evidence that Fndc5 is dispensable for muscle development and basal
metabolism but essential for exercise-induced browning of white adipose tissues
in mice.-Xiong, Y., Wu, Z., Zhang, B., Wang, C., Mao, F., Liu, X., Hu, K., Sun,
X., Jin, W., Kuang, S. Fndc5 loss-of-function attenuates exercise-induced
browning of white adipose tissue in mice.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Insulin resistance is strongly associated with nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease, a chronic, obesity-related liver disease. Increased
endoplasmic reticulum stress plays an important role in the development of
insulin resistance. In this study, we investigated the roles of miRNAs in
regulating ER stress in the liver of rats with obesity.
METHODS: We used miRNA microarray to determine the miRNA expression profiles in
the liver of rats fed a high fat diet (HFD). We used prediction algorithms and
luciferase reporter assay to identify the target gene of miRNAs. To overexpress
the miRNA miR-30b or inhibit miR-30b rats were injected with lentivirus particles
containing PGLV3-miR-30b or PGLV3-miR-30b antimiR through tail vein. Hepatic
steatosis was measured using transient elastography in human subjects.
RESULTS: Our data showed that miR-30b was markedly up-regulated in the liver of
HFD-treated rats. Bioinformatic and in vitro and in vivo studies led us to
identify sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+ -ATPase 2b (SERCA2b), as a novel
target of miR-30b. Overexpression of miR-30b induced ER stress and insulin
resistance in rats fed normal diet, whereas inhibition of miR-30b by miR-30b
antimiR suppressed ER stress and insulin resistance in HFD-treated rats. Finally,
our data demonstrated that there was a positive correlation between serum miR-30b
levels and hepatic steatosis, or HOMA-IR in human subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that miR-30b represents not only a potential
target for the treatment of insulin resistance, but also a non-invasive disease
biomarker of NAFLD. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
 Long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 4 (ACSL4) has a unique substrate specificity for
arachidonic acid (AA). Hepatic ACSL4 is coregulated with the phospholipid
remodeling enzyme lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3) by PPARd to 
modulate plasma triglyceride metabolism. In this study, we investigated the acute
effects of hepatic ACSL4 deficiency on lipid metabolism in adult mice fed a
high-fat diet (HFD). Adenovirus-mediated expression of a mouse ACSL4 shRNA
(Ad-shAcsl4) in the liver of HFD-fed mice led to a 43% reduction of hepatic
arachidonoyl-CoA synthetase activity and a 53% decrease in ACSL4 protein levels
as compared to mice receiving control adenovirus (Ad-shLacZ). Attenuated ACSL4
expression resulted in a substantial decrease in circulating VLDL-triglyceride
levels without affecting plasma cholesterol. Lipidomics profiling revealed that
knocking down ACSL4 altered liver phospholipid compositions, with the greatest
impact on accumulation of abundant Lyso PC species LPC (16:0) and LPC (18:0), and
lyso PE species LPE (16:0) and LPE (18:0). In addition, fasting glucose and
insulin levels were higher in Ad-shAcsl4-transduced mice vs. control. Glucose
tolerance testing further indicated an insulin-resistant phenotype upon knockdown
of ACSL4. These results provide the first in vivo evidence that ACSL4 plays a
role in plasma triglyceride and glucose metabolism and hepatic phospholipid
synthesis of hyperlipidemic mice.
EOF
This study aimed to compare the hypolipidaemic activities of different Monascus
pigments (yellow, red and orange pigments) and elucidate their possible
regulatory mechanisms on lipid and cholesterol metabolism in rats fed on a
high-fat diet (HFD). Results showed that oral administrations of Monascus yellow,
red and orange pigments can markedly alleviate the disturbance of lipid
metabolism through ameliorating the serum lipid levels and suppressing hepatic
lipid accumulation and steatosis. Meanwhile, the excretion of fecal cholesterol, 
triacylglycerols and bile acids was also promoted by the oral administrations of 
different Monascus pigments (MPs). Furthermore, Monascus pigment (MP)
supplementation produced significant structural changes in the intestinal
microbiota of HFD-fed rats, and modulated the relative abundance of functionally 
related microbial phylotypes compared with the HFD group in particular. Key
phylotypes in response to the HFD and Monascus pigment (MP) intervention were
found to strongly correlate with the lipid metabolism disorder associated
parameters using Spearman's correlation coefficient. Some beneficial gut
microbiota (such as Oscillibacter sp., Ruminococcus albus, Clostridium sp., etc.)
were found to be negatively correlated with the serum and hepatic lipid
indicator. Moreover, Monascus pigment (MP) treatments regulated the mRNA
expression levels of the genes responsible for lipid and cholesterol metabolism. 
In general, different Monascus pigments (MPs) regulate the homeostasis of lipid
and cholesterol metabolism through different regulatory pathways. These findings 
illustrated that not only Monascus yellow pigments, but also Monascus red and
orange pigments have the potential to ameliorate lipid metabolic disorders, and
therefore could be used as potential functional food ingredients for the
prevention or treatment of hyperlipidemia and gut microbiota dysbiosis.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: High-fat diet (HFD) feeding stimulates fat accumulation in mammals and
Drosophila. In the present study, we examined whether simultaneous feeding of
familiar anti-obesity drugs, quercetin glycosides (QG) and epigallocatechin
gallate (EGCG), to Drosophila has the same suppressive effect on fat accumulation
as previously reported in rats and mice. To understand the underlying molecular
mechanisms of HFD diet-induced obesity and the suppression effect of the drugs,
we performed transcriptome analyses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We induced extra fat accumulation by feeding Drosophila
fly food containing 20% coconut oil and quantified the triglyceride accumulated
in flies. The effects of anti-obesity drugs were also evaluated. We isolated
total RNA from each sample and performed RNA-seq analyses and quantitive Real
Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR) to investigate altered gene expression.
RESULTS: The mRNA levels of several genes involved in lipid metabolism,
glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and anti-oxidative stress changed in HFD-fed adults. 
Moreover, the levels altered in those fed an HFD with QG or EGCG. The qRT-PCR
further confirmed the RNA-seq data, suggesting that the expression of five
essential genes for lipid metabolism changed in HFD-fed flies and altered in the 
flies treated with anti-obesity drugs. The most remarkable alteration was
observed in the dHSL gene encoding a lipase involved in lipid-storage after HFD
feeding and HFD with QG or EGCG. These alterations are consistent with
HFD-induced fat accumulation as well as the anti-obesity effects of the drugs in 
mammals, suggesting that the genes play an important role in anti-obesity
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: These are the first reports to date of entire profiles of altered
gene expression under the conditions of diet-induced obesity and its suppression 
by anti-obesity drugs in Drosophila.
EOF
The present study aimed to assess the protective effects of
tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) on the livers of mice fed a high fat diet. The mice
were divided into five groups: Regular diet; high fat diet; simvastatin‑treated; 
and low and high dose TMP‑treated groups. The results demonstrated that, compared
with the control group, serum glucose, total cholesterol (TC) and low‑density
lipoprotein cholesterol levels were increased in the model group. Additionally,
compared with the model group, simvastatin lowered the TC level, whereas TMP did 
not. Compared with the control group, the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the
liver tissue was increased and the level of glutathione peroxidase (GSH‑pX) in
the liver tissue was decreased in the model group. Furthermore, compared with the
model group, TMP decreased the level of MDA and increased the level of GSH‑Px;
however, simvastatin did not have these effects. Immunohistochemistry and western
blotting were performed; the results showed that, compared with the control
group, the levels of inflammatory factors (tumor necrosis factor‑α and
interleukin‑6) in the liver tissue were increased, and the ratio of
phosphorylated (p)‑nuclear factor κB (NF‑κB)/NF‑κB was also increased in the
model group. The addition of TMP and simvastatin demonstrated that, compared with
the model group, the inflammatory factor levels and the ratio of p‑NF‑κB/NF‑κB
were decreased. In addition, liver lipid deposition was examined in the model
group using hematoxylin and eosin staining and Oil Red O staining, and the
results showed that TMP and simvastatin reduced liver lipid deposition.
Furthermore, compared with the control group, the reactive oxygen species (ROS)
level in the liver tissue was increased. Compared with that in the model group,
TMP and simvastatin decreased the ROS level. In conclusion, TMP, similar to
simvastatin, exerted a notable hepatoprotective effect on mice fed a high fat
diet with non‑alcoholic fatty liver disease, by inhibiting inflammatory factors
and the p‑NF‑κB/ROS signaling pathway.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Due to low bioavailability, the majority of Cyclocarya paliurus
flavonoids (CPF) remain in the large intestine where they may accumulate to exert
a modulatory effect on the intestinal micro-ecology. Therefore, in this study,
the modulatory effect of CPF on intestinal microbiota was investigated.
RESULTS: CPF dramatically ameliorated the obesity-induced gut dysbiosis. A
significant decrease (P < 0.05) was observed in the ratio of
Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes after CPF treatment for 8 weeks. Moreover, Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways of biosynthesis of amino acids,
two-component system and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters enriched the
most differentially expressed genes after CPF intervention.
CONCLUSION: This study indicated CPF might have prebiotic-like activity and could
be used as a functional food component with potential therapeutic utility to
prevent obesity-related metabolic disorders by manipulating the gut flora and
affecting certain metabolic pathways, contributing to the improvement of human
health. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
This study aimed to explore periodontal and systemic immune response of
overweight hosts to periodontitis. Forty C57 BL/6J male mice were divided into
high (HF) or low fat (LF) diet groups and fed with the two diets, respectively,
for 8 weeks. Each diet group was then divided into periodontitis (P) or control
(C) groups (n = 10 per group) for 10-day ligation or sham-ligation.
Overweight-related parameters including body weight were measured. Alveolar bone 
loss (ABL) was morphometrically analyzed and periodontal osteoclasts were
stained. Periodontal immune response including leukocyte and macrophage number
and inflammatory cytokines were analyzed by histology and quantitative PCR. Serum
cytokine and lipid levels were quantified using electrochemiluminescence
immunoassays, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and biochemistry. It was found 
that HF group had 14.4% body weight gain compared with LF group (P < 0.01). ABL
and periodontal osteoclast, leukocyte, and macrophage number were higher in P
group than C group regardless of diet (P < 0.05). ABL and periodontal osteoclast 
number were not affected by diet regardless of ligation or sham-ligation.
Leukocyte and macrophage number and protein level of tumor necrosis factor α
(TNF-α) in periodontium and serum interleukin-6 level were downregulated by HF
diet in periodontitis mice (P < 0.05). Periodontal protein level of TNF-α was
highly correlated with serum interleukin-6 and low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol levels (P < 0.01). These findings indicated that impaired immune
response occurs both periodontally and systemically in preobesity overweight
individuals. Given a well-reported exacerbating effect of obesity on
periodontitis, overweight, if let uncontrolled, might place the individuals at
potential risk for future periodontal tissue damage.
EOF
Peripheral serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine: 5-HT) synthesized in the intestine by 
enterochromaffin cells (ECs), plays an important role in the regulation of
peristaltic of the gut, epithelial secretion and promotes the development and
maintenance of the enteric neurons. Recent studies showed that the indigenous gut
microbiota modulates 5-HT signalling and that ECs use sensory receptors to detect
dietary and microbiota-derived signals from the lumen to subsequently transduce
the information to the nervous system. We hypothesized that Clostridium ramosum
by increasing gut 5-HT availability consequently contributes to high-fat
diet-induced obesity. Using germ-free mice and mice monoassociated with C.
ramosum, intestinal cell lines and mouse organoids, we demonstrated that
bacterial cell components stimulate host 5-HT secretion and program the
differentiation of colonic intestinal stem progenitors toward the secretory
5-HT-producing lineage. An elevated 5-HT level regulates the expression of major 
proteins involved in intestinal fatty acid absorption in vitro, suggesting that
the presence of C. ramosum in the gut promotes 5-HT secretion and thereby could
facilitates intestinal lipid absorption and the development of obesity.
EOF
 OBJECTIVE: Resveratrol (RSV) is a natural polyphenol with putative anti-obesity
effects; however, its mechanisms of action remain unclear due to its low
bioavailability. Microbial functions in the physiology result from the
microbiota-host coevolution has profoundly affected host metabolism. Here, we
sought to determine how beneficial microbiome caused by RSV interventions affects
antiobesity.
METHODS: C57BL/6J mice were fed either standard diet (SD) or RSV (300 mg/kg/day) 
diet for 16 weeks. The composition of the gut microbiota was assessed by
analyzing 16S rRNA gene sequences. Then, transplant the RSV-microbiota to
high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice (HFD-RSVT) to explore the function of microbiota.
Body weight and food intake were monitored. Markers of lipid metabolism,
inflammation, gut microbiota compostion, and intestinal barrier were determined.
RESULTS: Mice treated with RSV shows a remarkable alteration in microbiota
composition compared with that of SD-fed mice and is characterized by an
enrichment of Bacteroides, Lachnospiraceae_NK4A136_group, Blautia,
Lachnoclostridium, Parabacteroides, and Ruminiclostridium_9, collectively
referred to as RSV-microbiota. We further explored whether RSV-microbiota has
anti-obesity functions. Transplantation of the RSV-microbiota to high-fat diet
(HFD)-fed mice (HFD-RSVT) was sufficient to decrease their weight gain and
increase their insulin sensitivity. Moreover, RSV-microbiota was able to modulate
lipid metabolism, stimulate the development of beige adipocytes in WAT, reduce
inflammation and improve intestinal barrier function.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that RSV-induced microbiota plays a key role 
in controlling obesity development and brings new insights to a potential therapy
based on host-microbe interactions.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: Dieting often fails because weight loss triggers strong
counter-regulatory biological responses such as increased hunger and
hypometabolism that are thought to be critically dependent on the master fuel
sensor in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH). Because prolonged starvation has
been shown to increase AgRP and NPY, the expression level of these two orexigenic
genes has been taken as an experimental readout for the presence or absence of
hunger. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery leads to a significant weight
loss without inducing the associated hunger, indicating possible changes in
hypothalamic neuropeptides and/or signaling. Our goal was to assess key genes in 
the MBH involved in regulating body weight, appetite, and inflammation/oxidative 
stress after RYGB surgery in mice.
METHODS: Obese mice on a high-fat diet were subjected to either sham or RYGB
surgery, or caloric restriction to match the weight of RYGB group. Chow-fed mice 
without surgery served as an additional control group. After 2 or 12 weeks
post-surgery, hypothalamic genes were analyzed by real-time qPCR.
RESULTS: During the rapid weight loss phase at 2 weeks after RYGB surgery,
hypothalamic AgRP and NPY gene expression was not increased compared to mice with
sham surgery, indicating that the mice are not hungry. In contrast, the same
weight loss induced by caloric restriction promptly triggered increased AgRP and 
NPY expression. This differential effect of RYGB and caloric restriction was no
longer observed during the weight-maintenance phase at 12 weeks after surgery. A 
similar differential effect was observed for ObRb, but not for POMC and CART
expression. Furthermore, RAGE and IBA-1, two markers for inflammation/oxidative
stress, were significantly suppressed after RYGB compared to caloric restriction 
at 2 weeks post-surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that RYGB prevents the biologically adaptive 
hunger response triggered by undernutrition and weight loss, and suppresses
weight loss-induced hypothalamic inflammation markers.
EOF
Niacin inhibits fatty acid flux from adipose tissue to liver, reduces hepatic
triglyceride synthesis and increases hepatic lipid oxidation. Thus, niacin may
have a role in the regulation of liver fat content in humans. We tested if
dietary intake of niacin predicts change of liver fat content during a lifestyle 
intervention. To this end, we estimated the composition of diet from diaries of
202 healthy subjects at risk of type 2 diabetes undergoing lifestyle intervention
comprising physical activity and diet counselling. Total-, subcutaneous- and
visceral adipose tissue mass were measured by magnetic resonance (MR) tomography 
and liver fat content by 1H-MR spectroscopy at baseline and after 9 months of
follow-up. Among fat compartments, liver fat content showed the largest decrease 
(-32%, p < 0.0001). High baseline niacin intake predicted a larger decrease of
liver fat (p = 0.004). Subjects in the highest quartile of niacin intake at
baseline also had the largest decrease of liver fat (1st:-10%; 2nd:-27%;
3rd:-35%; 4th:-37%). Among 58 subjects with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) at baseline, NAFLD resolved in 23 subjects during the lifestyle
intervention. For one standard deviation increase in niacin intake, the odds
ratio for resolution of NAFLD was 1.77 (95% CI, 1.00-3.43). High dietary niacin
intake may have a favorable effect on the reduction of liver fat during lifestyle
intervention.
EOF
Thrombin aggravates ischemic stroke and activated protein C (APC) has a
neuroprotective effect. Both proteases interact with protease-activated receptor 
1, which exhibits functional selectivity and leads to G-protein- and
β-arrestin-mediated-biased signal transduction. We focused on the effect of
β-arrestin in PAR-1-biased signaling on endothelial function after stroke or
high-fat diet (HFD). Thrombin had a rapid disruptive effect on endothelial
function, but APC had a slow protective effect. Paralleled by prolonged MAPK
42/44 signaling activation by APC via β-arrestin-2, a lower cleavage rate of
PAR-1 for APC than thrombin was quantitatively visualized by bioluminescence
video imaging. HFD-fed mice showed lower β-arrestin-2 levels and more severe
ischemic injury. The expression of β-arrestin-2 in capillaries and PDGF-β
secretion in HFD-fed mice were reduced in penumbra lesions. These results
suggested that β-arrestin-2-MAPK-PDGF-β signaling enhanced protection of
endothelial function and barrier integrity after stroke.
EOF
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to elucidate the effects and mechanisms of Radix
Linderae (RL) extracts on a mouse model of diabetic bladder dysfunction (DBD),
especially on later decompensated phase.
METHODS: Male C57BL/6J mice were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin
(STZ) after 4 weeks of high-fat diet (HFD) feeding. DBD mouse models (later
decompensated phase) were developed by 12-weeks persistent hyperglycemia and then
treated with RL extracts for 4 weeks. During administration, the fasting blood
glucose (FBG) test was performed once a week. Four weeks later, oral glucose
tolerance test (OGTT), voided stain on paper (VSOP), and urodynamic alteration
were explored. We also performed haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and Masson's
trichrome staining to observe the histology of the bladder. Then, the contractile
responses to α, β-methylene ATP, capsaicin (CAP), KCl and carbachol were
measured. Moreover, qPCR assay was performed to analyse the bladder gene
expression levels of M3 receptors and TRPV1.
RESULTS: The diabetic mice exhibited higher FBG, OGTT and urine production, and
no substantial alteration was observed after RL treatment. Urodynamic test showed
the maximum bladder capacity (MBC), residual volume (RV) and bladder compliance
(BC), as well as the decrement of voided efficiency (VE) and micturition volume
(MV), remarkably increased in the DBD mice. Furthermore, RL treatment significant
improved urodynamic urination, with lower MBC, RV, and, BC, as well as higher VE 
and MV, as compared with the model groups. The wall thickness of the bladder and 
the ratio of smooth muscle/collagen remarkably increased, and RL could
effectively attenuate the pathological change. The response of bladder strips to 
the stimulus was also reduced in the DBD mice, and RL treatment markedly
increased the contraction. Furthermore, the gene expression levels of M3
receptors and TRPV1 were down-regulated in the bladders of the diabetic mice,
whereas RL treatment retrieved those gene expression levels.
CONCLUSIONS: RL extracts can improve the bladder voiding functions of the DBD
model mice in later decompensated phase, and underlying mechanisms was associated
with mediating the gene expression of M3 receptors and TRPV1 in the bladder
instead of improving blood sugar levels.
EOF
 Carob fruit extract (CFE) has shown remarkable in vitro antioxidant properties
and reduces postprandial hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia in healthy animals.
Development of functional meat products that contain bioactive components are
presented as a great nutritional strategy. Until now, the effect of the
consumption of restructured meat enriched with CFE in a murine model of diabetes 
has not been investigated. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect
on glycemia, lipemia, lipoprotein profile, Ldlr, arylesterase (AE), and very
low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) and liver oxidation in
streptozotocin-nicotinamide (STZ-NAD) growing Wistar diabetic rats fed
restructured meat in the frame of a high cholesterol/high saturated-fat diet. In 
the present study, three groups (D, ED and DE) were fed cholesterol-enriched
(1.4% cholesterol and 0.2% cholic acid) and high saturated-fat diets (50% of
total energy from fats and 20.4% from saturated fatty acids). Rats were subjected
to a STZ-NAD administration at the 3rd week. Group D did not receive CFE, while
ED and DE rat groups received CFE before and after the diabetic induction,
respectively. After eight weeks, D rats showed hyperglycemia and
hypercholesterolemia, an increased amount cholesterol-enriched VLDL (β-VLDL), IDL
and LDL particles and triglyceride-enriched HDL. ED and DE partially blocked the 
hypercholesterolemic induction with respect to D group (p < 0.001) and improved
glycemia, cholesterol levels, lipoprotein profile, Ldlr, plasma AE activity and
liver oxidation (p < 0.001). Fecal fat, moisture and excretion were higher while 
dietary digestibility was lower in ED and DE vs. D counterparts (p < 0.001). In
conclusion, CFE-enriched meat shows, for the first time, hypoglycemic and
hypolipidemic effects in STZ-NAD animals fed high cholesterol/high saturated-fat 
diets. Likewise, it manages to reverse possible diabetes lipoprotein alterations 
if CFE-enriched meat is consumed before pathology development or improves said
modifications if Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus is already established.
EOF
Nitrogen balance studies have shown that a portion of the N ingested but not
excreted is not accounted for. We compared several diets (standard, high-fat,
high-protein, and self-selected cafeteria) to determine how diet-dependent energy
sources affect nitrogen handling, i.e., the liver urea cycle. Diet components and
rat homogenates were used for nitrogen, lipid, and energy analyses. Plasma urea
and individual amino acids, as well as liver urea cycle enzyme activities, were
determined. Despite ample differences in N intake, circulating amino acids
remained practically unchanged in contrast to marked changes in plasma urea. The 
finding of significant correlations between circulating urea and
arginine-succinate synthase and lyase activities supported their regulatory role 
of urea synthesis, the main N excretion pathway. The cycle operation also
correlated with the food protein/energy ratio, in contraposition to total
nitrogen losses and estimated balance essentially independent of dietary energy
load. The different regulation mechanisms observed have potentially important
nutritional consequences, hinting at nitrogen disposal mechanisms able to
eliminate excess nitrogen under conditions of high availability of both energy
and proteins. Their operation reduces urea synthesis to allow for a safe (albeit 
unknown) mechanism of N/energy excess accommodation.
EOF
 Butyric acid has been shown to reduce high-fat diet-related metabolic
disturbances and to improve intestinal barrier function due to its potent
anti-inflammatory capacity. This study investigates whether a butyric acid ester,
monobutyrin (MB) affects lipid profiles and gut barrier function in a
dose-response manner in rats fed butter- or lard-based high-fat diets.
Four-week-old male Wistar rats were fed butter-based diets containing 0, 0.25,
0.75 and 1.5 MB g/100 g (dry weight basis) or 0.5 glycerol g/100 g, and diets
with lard (La) containing 0 and 0.5 MB g/100 g or a low-fat control diet for 3⁻4 
weeks. Lipid profiles in blood and liver tissue, intestinal permeability and
cecal short-chain fatty acids were examined. The results showed a dose-dependent 
decrease in liver total cholesterol for 1.5 MB (p < 0.05) and liver triglycerides
for 0.75 MB (p < 0.05) and 1.5 MB (p = 0.08) groups compared to the high-fat
control group. Furthermore, a lower excretion of mannitol in urine in the 1.5 MB 
group indicated improved intestinal barrier function. When MB was supplemented in
the lard-based diet, serum total cholesterol levels decreased, and total amount
of liver high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol increased. Thus, MB dietary
supplementation can be effective in counteracting lipid metabolism disturbances
and impaired gut barrier function induced by high-fat diets.
EOF
Chia is a good source of calcium, however it is not been previously reported its 
bioavailability associated with an inflammatory condition. Thus, the present
study evaluated the effect of chia on calcium bioavailability, inflammation, and 
oxidative stress in Wistar rats fed a high-fat diet or standard diet for 35 days.
Chia consumption resulted in lower calcium balance and calcium absorption and
retention rates. In addition, the urinary calcium concentration was lower in
groups that were fed chia. The bone resistance of animals feed chia was lower
than that in rats fed the standard diet receiving calcium carbonate. Animals that
were fed chia showed lower total, very low-density lipoprotein, and low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol levels than animalsfed calcium carbonate. Animals fed
standard diet showed higher superoxide dismutase plasma concentrations than
animals in the high fat calcium carbonate group. PPAR-α protein levels were
higher in animals fed chia whereas TNF-α and IL-10 were lower in these animals.
NFκB mRNA expression and protein levels were lower in the groups that received
chia compared with HFD + CC. Chia intake presented low calcium bioavailability
regardless of the type of diet consumed and was able to improved inflammation and
the lipid profile in young Wistar rat. Besides this, the consumption of this seed
increased the activity of antioxidants enzymes.
EOF
Lycium barbarum polysaccharide (LBP), as one bioactive macromolecular abstracted 
from goji berry, has shown an abundance of potential function. The present study 
aimed to evaluate the metabolic effects of LBP on the urine and liver
metabolomics on a high-fat diet and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat model.
After 8 weeks of high-fat diet and streptozotocin induction of diabetes, 24
diabetic rats were randomly allocated to the diabetic control (DC) group, LBP
low, moderate, and high dosage (LBP-L, LBP-M, LBP-H) groups and 6 non-diabetic
rats were established as the non-diabetic control (NDC) group for 30 days'
intervention. Metabolomics was performed on liver and urine. LBP positively
regulated fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin-A1c, homeostasis model assessment for
insulin resistance, liver glycogen and SOD levels significantly, as compared to
the DC group. Liver metabolomics showed higher levels of myo-inositol and lower
levels of L-malic acid, fumaric acid, D-arabitol, L-allothreonine 1, xylitol,
O-phosphorylethanolamine, ribitol, 5-methoxytryptamine 2 and digitoxose 2 in the 
LBP-H group vs. the DC group, which indicates that LBP may regulate the citrate
cycle, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, glyoxylate and dicarboxylate 
metabolism. Urine metabolomics showed increased levels of creatinine,
D-galacturonic acid 2, 2,3-dihydroxybutyric acid and citric acid, and decreased
levels of methylmalonic acid, benzoic acid and xylitol between the LBP-H and DC
groups. The present study exhibited the effects of LBP on the urine and liver
metabolomics in a high-fat diet and streptozotocin-induced rat model, which not
only provides a better understanding of the anti-diabetic effects of LBP but also
supplies a useful database for further specific mechanism study.
EOF
The potential health benefit of dietary fiber has attracted considerable
attention in recent decades. In this study, the effects of modified dietary
fibers (MDF) derived from okara on body composition, fat distribution, serum
metabolomic parameters, and fatty acid profiles in mice fed high-fat diets (HFD) 
were evaluated by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based metabolic approach.
HFD-induced C57BL mice were fed with a diet containing 100 g/kg MDF for 12 weeks.
Compared with control mice, MDF-fed mice exhibited less fat and lower body
weights, altered serum metabolomic profiles, and distinct fatty acid profiles.
The levels of choline, phosphatidylcholine, glycerophosphorylcholine, glucose,
lysine, scyllo-inositol, and glutamate for MDF group were higher than those for
both CONT and HFD groups. A remarkable reduction of total cholesterol, total
triglycerides, ω-6 fatty acids, alanine, citrate, creatine, or succinate was also
observable for MDF group compared with HFD group. These findings demonstrated
that the intake of MDF derived from okara clearly ameliorated some of the
HFD-induced adverse metabolic effects and prevented adipose tissue accumulation.
EOF
High-fat diet (HFD) consumption induces oxidative stress and microbial dysbiosis,
the latter of which plays a vital role in the development of metabolic syndrome. 
We hypothesized that sinapic acid and resveratrol treatment might be a potential 
strategy to ameliorate the redox state and gut microbiota composition imbalance. 
In this study, rats were randomised into five groups and fed a high-fat diet
supplemented with resveratrol (400 mg/kg), sinapic acid (200 mg/kg) or a
combination of both polyphenols. Administration of resveratrol effectively
reduced fasting blood glucose levels (p < 0.05) and increased the HDL-c levels
(p < 0.05). Reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde levels were decreased in 
the colon (p < 0.05), total antioxidant capacity was increased in liver
(p < 0.05) by sinapic acid consumption in HFD rats. Moreover, polyphenol
supplementation impacted the intestinal microbiome at different taxonomic levels 
by improving the proportion of butyrate producer Blautia (p < 0.05) and Dorea
(p < 0.01) in the Lachaospiraceae family and inhibiting the growth of bacterial
species associated with diseases and inflammation such as Bacteroides (p < 0.05) 
and Desulfovibrionaceaesp (p < 0.01). Spearman correlation analysis showed that
some oxidative stress variables were directly correlated with changes in gut
microbiota. Our findings demonstrated qualitative differences between the
treatments in their abilities to alleviate HFD-induced oxidative stress and
modulate the gut microbiota. These findings might be helpful to better understand
the effects of bioactive constituents on nutrition for human health.
EOF
 Obesity-derived inflammation and metabolic dysfunction has been related to the
activity of the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). To understand the
interrelation between metabolism, obesity and NO., we evaluated the effects of
obesity-induced NO. signaling on liver mitochondrial function. We used mouse
strains containing mitochondrial nicotinamide transhydrogenase activity, while
prior studies involved a spontaneous mutant of this enzyme, and are, therefore,
more prone to oxidative imbalance. Wild-type and iNOS knockout mice were fed a
high fat diet for 2, 4 or 8 weeks. iNOS knockout did not protect against
diet-induced metabolic changes. However, the diet decreased fatty-acid oxidation 
capacity in liver mitochondria at 4 weeks in both wild-type and knockout groups; 
this was recovered at 8 weeks. Interestingly, other mitochondrial functional
parameters were unchanged, despite significant modifications in insulin
resistance in wild type and iNOS knockout animals. Overall, we found two
surprising features of obesity-induced metabolic dysfunction: (i) iNOS does not
have an essential role in obesity-induced insulin resistance under all
experimental conditions and (ii) liver mitochondria are resilient to functional
changes in obesity-induced metabolic dysfunction.
EOF
Glial cell line Derived Neurotrophic Factor (GDNF) is a protein that is required 
for the development and survival of enteric, sympathetic, and catecholaminergic
neurons. We previously reported that GDNF is protective against high fat diet
(HFD)-induced hepatic steatosis in mice through suppression of hepatic expression
of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor- γ (PPAR-γ) and genes encoding
enzymes involved in de novo lipogenesis. We also reported that transgenic
overexpression of GDNF in mice prevented the HFD-induced liver accumulation of
the autophagy cargo-associated protein p62/sequestosome 1 (p62/SQSTM1)
characteristic of impaired autophagy. Here we investigated the effects of GDNF on
hepatic autophagy in response to increased fat load, and on hepatocyte
mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation and cell survival. GDNF not only prevented
the reductions in the liver levels of some key autophagy-related proteins,
including Atg5, Atg7, Beclin-1 and LC3A/B-II, seen in HFD-fed control mice, but
enhanced their levels after 12-weeks of HFD-feeding. In vitro, GDNF accelerated
autophagic cargo clearance in primary mouse hepatocytes and a rat hepatocyte cell
line, and reduced the phosphorylation of the mTOR complex downstream target p70S6
kinase similar to the autophagy activator rapamycin. GDNF also enhanced
mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation in primary mouse and rat hepatocytes, and
protected against palmitate-induced lipotoxicity. Conclusion: We demonstrate a
novel role for GDNF in enhancing hepatic autophagy and in potentiating
mitochondrial function and fatty acid oxidation. Our studies show that GDNF and
its receptor agonists could be useful for enhancing hepatocyte survival and
protecting against fatty acid-induced hepatic lipotoxicity. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Chronic inflammation is a major contributor to obesity-related renal damage.
Recent studies have demonstrated that microRNA (miR)-155 is closely associated
with hyperglycemia-induced nephropathy, but whether renal miR-155 participates in
the inflammatory response and development of obesity-related nephropathy is
unknown. In present study, we investigated the pathophysiological role of renal
miR-155 in palmitic acid (PA)-treated endothelial cell and high-fat-diet
(HFD)-fed mouse models by specific miR-155 sponge. Mice fed with HFD exhibited
higher levels of renal miR-155, which positively correlated with urine
microalbumin and blood urea nitrogen. In vitro study, mouse renal vascular
endothelial cells stimulated with PA also showed higher miR-155 levels,
accompanied with increased inflammatory response. Suppression of renal miR-155
effectively attenuated HFD-induced renal structural damages and dysfunction.
MiR-155 sponge treatment also significantly decreased NF-κB signaling and
downstream gene expression in vitro and in vivo. The obesity-increased macrophage
infiltration and lipotoxicity was decreased in mouse kidney after miR-155 sponge 
treatment. Mechanistically, miR-155 directly targeted 3'-UTR of SHIP1/INPP5D and 
suppressed its expression in vitro and in vivo, whereas silence of SHIP1/INPP5D
abolished the renal protective benefits of miR-155 sponge in obese mice. Taken
together, present findings for the first time provided evidence for the potential
role of miR-155 in obesity-related nephropathy and clarified that SHIP1/NF-κB
signaling was a potential molecular mechanism.
EOF
Background: Excess dietary fat and sugar are linked to obesity and metabolic
syndrome. Polyamines such as spermidine are implicated in fat accumulation and
may support activity-induced weight loss.
Objective: This study tested interventional spermidine supplementation and
voluntary activity against fat- and sucrose-induced systemic and gut microbiota
changes.
Methods: A 3-factorial study design (3 × 2 × 2) was used to test the factors
diet, activity, and spermidine. Male 6-wk-old C57BL/6N mice were fed a control
diet (CD; carbohydrate:protein:fat, 70%:20%:10% of energy; 7% sucrose), a
high-fat diet (HFD; carbohydrate:protein:fat, 20%:20%:60% of energy; 7% sucrose),
or a high-sucrose diet (HSD; carbohydrate:protein:fat, 70%:20%:10% of energy; 35%
sucrose). Diet groups were left untreated (+0) or had unlimited access to running
wheels (+A) or were supplemented with 3 mM spermidine via drinking water (+S) or 
a combination of both (+A+S) for 30 wk (n = 7-10).
Results: In comparison to the CD, the HFD enhanced body weights (by 36%,
P < 0.001), plasma lipids (cholesterol by 24%, P < 0.001; triglycerides by 27%,
P = 0.004), and glucose concentrations (by 18%, P < 0.001), whereas the HSD
increased weight by 13% (P < 0.001) and fasting glucose by 17% (P < 0.001) but
did not increase plasma lipids. Microbiota taxonomic composition changed upon the
HFD and HSD (both P < 0.001); however, only the HSD increased microbial diversity
(P < 0.001) compared with the CD. Activity influenced microbiota composition
(P < 0.01) and reduced glucose concentrations in HSD-fed (P = 0.021) and HFD-fed 
(P < 0.001) mice compared with nonactive mice. The combination of activity and
spermidine affected energy intake (P-interaction = 0.037) and reduced body
weights of HSD+A+S mice compared with HSD+0 mice (P = 0.024).
Conclusions: In male C57BL/6N mice, dietary sucrose and fat caused diverse
metabolic and microbiota changes that were differentially susceptible to physical
exercise. Spermidine has the potential to augment activity-induced beneficial
effects, particularly for sucrose-induced obesity.
EOF
Gluconeogenesis is de novo glucose synthesis from substrates such as amino acids 
and is vital when glucose is lacking in the diurnal nutritional fluctuation.
Accordingly, genes for hepatic gluconeogenic enzymes exhibit daily expression
rhythms, whose detailed regulations under nutritional variations remain elusive. 
As a first step, we performed general systematic characterization of daily
expression profiles of gluconeogenic enzyme genes for phosphoenolpyruvate
carboxykinase (PEPCK), cytosolic form (Pck1), glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase),
catalytic subunit (G6pc), and tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) (Tat) in the mouse 
liver. On a standard diet fed ad libitum, mRNA levels of these genes showed
robust daily rhythms with a peak or an elevation phase during the late
sleep-fasting period in the diurnal feeding/fasting (wake/sleep) cycle. The
rhythmicity was preserved in constant darkness, modulated with prolonged fasting,
attenuated by Clock mutation, and entrained to varied photoperiods and
time-restricted feedings. These results are concordant with the notion that
gluconeogenic enzyme genes are under the control of the intrinsic circadian
oscillator, which is entrained by the light/dark cycle, and which in turn
entrains the feeding/fasting cycle and also drives systemic signaling pathways
such as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. On the other hand,
time-restricted feedings also showed that the ingestion schedule, when separated 
from the light/dark cycle, can serve as an independent entrainer to daily
expression rhythms of gluconeogenic enzyme genes. Moreover, nutritional changes
dramatically modified expression profiles of the genes. In addition to prolonged 
fasting, a high-fat diet and a high-carbohydrate (no-protein) diet caused
modification of daily expression rhythms of the genes, with characteristic
changes in profiles of glucoregulatory hormones such as corticosterone, glucagon,
and insulin, as well as their modulators including ghrelin, leptin, resistin,
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), and glucagon-like peptide-1
(GLP-1). Remarkably, high-protein (60% casein or soy-protein) diets activated the
gluconeogenic enzyme genes atypically during the wake-feeding period, with
paradoxical up-regulation of glucagon, which frequently formed correlation
networks with other humoral factors. Based on these results, we propose that
daily expression rhythms of gluconeogenic enzyme genes are under the control of
systemic oscillator-driven and nutrient-responsive hormones.
EOF
Background: The present study aimed to assess the effectiveness of clam extract
in combination with atorvastatin against experimentally hyperlipidemia in rats.
Method: Forty male rats were divided into 5 groups (8 rats /group): control, high
fat diet (HFD), atorvastatin (AROR), clam extract (CE), and ATOR + CE.
Results: The treatments with ATOR and /or CE significantly reduced the body
weight gain, AST, ALT, ALP, TL, TC, TG, LDL-C, urea, creatinine, and uric acid
levels while they increased total proteins, albumin, and HDL-C. The treatment
with ATOR only did not cause any significant change in CK and MDA along with
antioxidant system, while the treatment with CE alone or with ATOR significantly 
decreased CK and MDA accompanied by improving the antioxidant system.
Conclusion: Combination of CE extract with atorvastatin improved the
hyperlipidemic efficacy and reduced undesirable side effects especially on
muscle.
EOF
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a complicated arterial disease resulting from abnormal
lipid deposition and inflammatory injury, which is attributed to Yin deficiency, 
accumulation of heat materials, and stasis of blood flow in Traditional Chinese
Medicine (TCM) theory. Thus, according to TCM theory, the method of nourishing
Yin (Yangyin), clearing away heat (Qingre), and promoting blood circulation
(Huoxue) is a reasonable strategy, which has achieved remarkable clinical
efficacy in the treatment of AS, but the mechanisms remain to be known. In this
study, we evaluated the effects of Yangyin Qingre Huoxue Prescription (YQHP) on
AS in ApoE-/- mice suffering from a high-fat diet and heat shock protein (HSP65) 
attack. YQHP regulated levels of blood lipids and inflammation-linked cytokines
as well as Th17/Treg ratio in peripheral blood. Suppressed IL-6-p-STAT3 signaling
and restored IL-2-p-STAT5 signaling in the presence of YQHP may partake in the
regulation of Th17 and Treg differentiation. Moreover, YQHP modulated
transcriptional levels of costimulator CD80 in aortas as well corresponding to
the downregulation of GM-CSF in serum and CD3 expression in CD4+ T cells, which
might indicate the potential of YQHP to regulate antigen presenting cells. All
these effects eventually promoted the improvement of atherosclerotic lesions. In 
addition, YQHP promoted less monocyte infiltration in the liver and lower levels 
of AST, ALT, and AKP production than simvastatin. Conclusively, lipid-regulating 
and anti-inflammatory functions mediated by YQHP with lower hepatotoxicity than
simvastatin hindered the progression of HSP65 aggravated AS in ApoE-/- mice,
indicating the effectiveness of Yangyin Qingre Huoxue Method in the treatment of 
AS.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by hepatic lipid
accumulation, which is the most common form of chronic liver disease. Multiple
clinical studies using natural compounds such as flavonoids have been conducted
to treat NAFLD. In the present study, the pharmacological effect of Citrus
aurantium L. (Rutaceae) peel extract (CAE), which contains over 27% of
polymethoxyflavone nobiletin, on NAFLD was evaluated using a high-fat diet (HFD) 
animal model susceptible to developing NAFLD. C57BL/6 mice were fed an HFD (60%
kcal of energy derived from fat) for 8 weeks to induce obesity. Obese mice were
randomly allocated to four groups of eight mice each (HFD alone, HFD with
silymarin, HFD with 50 mg/kg CAE, and HFD with 100 mg/kg CAE). After 8 weeks of
treatment, all mice were euthanized, and plasma and liver tissues were analyzed
biochemically and histopathologically. The results indicate that CAE treatment
significantly reduced HFD-induced NAFLD, as shown by decreased serum lipid index 
and prevented liver histopathology. The expression of genes involved in lipid
synthesis including free fatty acid (FFA), peroxisome-proliferator-activated
receptor γ (PPAR-γ), sterol receptor element binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c), and
fatty acid synthesis enzyme was suppressed by CAE treatment. Moreover, compared
to untreated mice, CAE-treated HFD mice showed decreased pro-inflammatory
cytokine expression. These results demonstrated that CAE prevented HFD-induced
NAFLD by reducing plasma levels of triglyceride and cholesterol and de novo lipid
synthesis.
EOF
Information on the common carotid artery and cerebral microcirculation can be
obtained by micro-ultrasound (µUS). The aim of the study described here was to
investigate high-fat diet-induced alterations in vascular parameters in ApoE-/-
mice. Twenty-two ApoE-/- male mice were examined by µUS and divided into the
standard diet (ApoE-/-SD) and high-fat diet (ApoE-/-HF) groups. The µUS
examination was repeated after 4 mo (T1). Carotid stiffness, reflection magnitude
and reflection index were measured; the amplitudes of the first (W1) and second
(W2) local maxima, the local minimum (Wb) and the reflection index
(RIWIA = Wb/W1) were assessed with wave intensity analysis. At T1, ApoE-/-HF mice
had increased carotid stiffness (1.48 [0.36] vs. 1.88 [0.51]) and reflection
magnitude (0.89 [0.07] vs. 0.94 [0.07]) values. Longitudinal comparisons
highlighted increases in carotid stiffness for ApoE-/-HF mice (from 1.37 [0.25]
to 1.88 [0.51] m/s) but not for ApoE-/-SD mice (from 1.40 [0.62] to 1.48 [0.36]
m/s). ApoE-/-HF mice exhibited carotid artery stiffening and increased wave
reflections.
EOF
Recent findings relate obesity to inflammation in key hypothalamic areas for body
weight control. Hypothalamic inflammation has also been related to oxidative
stress. Palmitic acid (PA) is the most abundant free fatty acid found in food,
and in vitro studies indicate that it triggers a pro-inflammatory response in the
brain. Melanocortins are neuropeptides with proven anti-inflammatory and
neuroprotective action mediated by melanocortin receptor 4 (MC4R), but little is 
known about the effect of melanocortins on oxidative stress. The aim of this
study was to investigate whether melanocortins could alleviate oxidative stress
induced by a high fat diet (HFD) model. We found that NDP-MSH treatment decreased
PA-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in astrocytes, an effect
blocked by the MC4R inhibitor JKC363. NDP-MSH abolished nuclear translocation of 
Nrf2 induced by PA and blocked the inhibitory effect of PA on superoxide
dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione (GSH) levels while it also per se
increased activity of SOD and γ-glutamate cysteine ligase (γ-GCL) antioxidant
enzymes. However, HFD reduced hypothalamic MC4R and BDNF mRNA levels, thereby
preventing the neuroprotective mechanism induced by melanocortins. This article
is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is affecting up to one-third of the
general population in western countries. While the major cause of NAFLD is
related to an unhealthy lifestyle, recent evidence has shown a role of chemical
exposure in the induction and progression of NAFLD. Perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) is 
a ubiquitous environmental contaminant that exerts its hepatotoxicity mainly
through the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα).
We examined how PFOA might affect the progression of NAFLD and whether a
preexisting fatty liver intensified or alleviated the effects of PFOA in the
livers. As such, male C57BL/6 mice were fed with a low-fat control diet (CD) or a
high fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks to model normal or steatotic livers,
respectively. Mice were then administered with PFOA (1mg/kg/d) by oral gavage for
an additional 2, 8, and 16 weeks. Dietary treatment was continued throughout the 
whole study. We found HFD induced hepatic steatosis, lobular inflammation, and
progressive fibrosis in mice. As expected, PFOA activated PPARα, constitutive
androstane receptor (CAR) and pregnane X receptor (PXR), regardless of the diet. 
Gene expression analysis showed the interactions between HFD and PFOA on hepatic 
nuclear receptors were time-dependent. Hepatocytes growth as measured by DNA
synthesis and cell growth genes induced by PFOA were exacerbated in the HFD group
after 2 weeks, along with the enhanced activation of PPARα. In contrast, PFOA
decreased the severity of hepatic steatosis. In HFD-fed mice, the hepatic
triglyceride levels were reduced to 75%, 47%, and 40%, after 2, 8, and 16 weeks
of PFOA treatment, respectively, compared to vehicle controls. Transcriptomic
analysis showed the preexisting NAFLD enhanced PFOA related lipid oxidation
pathways in mice. HFD induced hepatic fibrosis as measured by collagen staining
and fibrosis gene markers were also attenuated by PFOA. Taken together, this
study demonstrated that the preexisting NAFLD might impact on many biological
effects induced by PFOA and thus need to be carefully considered as a factor in
risk assessment.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Hepatic lipogenesis dysregulation is essential for the development of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Emerging evidence indicates the
importance of the involvement of long non-coding RNAs (LncRNAs) in lipogenesis.
However, the specific mechanism underlying this process is not clear.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the functional implication of LncRNA
MEG3 (MEG3) in fatty degeneration of hepatocytes and in the pathogenesis of
NAFLD.
METHODS: The expression of MEG3 was analysed in in vitro and in vivo models of
NAFLD, which were established by free fatty acid (FFA)-challenged HepG2 cells and
high-fat diet-fed mice, respectively. Endogenous MEG3 was over-expressed by a
specific pcDNA3.1-MEG3 to evaluate the regulatory function of MEG3 on
triglyceride (TG)- and lipogenesis-related genes. Bioinformatic analysis was used
to predict the target genes and binding sites, and the targeted regulatory
relationship was verified with a dual luciferase assay. Finally, the possible
pathway that regulates MEG3 was also evaluated.
RESULTS: We found that the downregulation of MEG3 in vitro and in vivo models of 
NAFLD was negatively correlated with lipogenesis-related genes and that
overexpression of MEG3 reversed FFA-induced lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells.
miR-21 was upregulated in the FFA-challenged HepG2 cells and was physically
associated with MEG3 in the process of lipogenesis. Our mechanistic studies
demonstrated that MEG3 competitively binds to miR-21 with LRP6, followed by the
inhibition of the mTOR pathway, which induces intracellular lipid accumulation.
CONCLUSION: Our data are the first to document the working model of MEG3
functions as a potential hepatocyte lipid degeneration suppressor. MEG3 helps to 
alleviate lipid over-deposition, probably by binding to miR-21 to regulate the
expression of LRP6. Our results suggest the potency of MEG3 as a biomarker for
NAFLD and as a therapeutic target for treatment.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: The mammalian circadian clock controls various aspects of
liver metabolism and integrates nutritional signals. Recently, we described
Hedgehog (Hh) signaling as a novel regulator of liver lipid metabolism. Here, we 
investigated crosstalk between hepatic Hh signaling and circadian rhythm.
METHODS: Diurnal rhythms of Hh signaling were investigated in liver and
hepatocytes from mice with ablation of Smoothened (SAC-KO) and crossbreeds with
PER2::LUC reporter mice. By using genome-wide screening, qPCR, immunostaining,
ELISA and RNAi experiments in vitro we identified relevant transcriptional
regulatory steps. Shotgun lipidomics and metabolic cages were used for analysis
of metabolic alterations and behavior.
RESULTS: Hh signaling showed diurnal oscillations in liver and hepatocytes in
vitro. Correspondingly, the level of Indian Hh, oscillated in serum. Depletion of
the clock gene Bmal1 in hepatocytes resulted in significant alterations in the
expression of Hh genes. Conversely, SAC-KO mice showed altered expression of
clock genes, confirmed by RNAi against Gli1 and Gli3. Genome-wide screening
revealed that SAC-KO hepatocytes showed time-dependent alterations in various
genes, particularly those associated with lipid metabolism. The clock/hedgehog
module further plays a role in rhythmicity of steatosis, and in the response of
the liver to a high fat diet or to differently timed starvation.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, Hh signaling in hepatocytes was found to be
time-of-day dependent and to feed back on the circadian clock. Our findings
suggest an integrative role of Hh signaling, mediated mainly by GLI factors, in
maintaining hepatic lipid metabolism homeostasis by balancing the circadian
clock. (Electronic word count: 248) LAY SUMMARY: The results of our investigation
show for the first time that the Hh signaling in hepatocytes is time-of-day
dependent, leading to differences not only in transcript levels but also in the
amount of HH ligands in peripheral blood. Conversely, Hh signaling is able to
feed back to the circadian clock.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Diabetes is a complex disease implicating several organs and cell
types. Within the islets, dysregulation occurs in both alpha- and beta-cells,
leading to defects of insulin secretion and increased glucagon secretion.
Dysregulation of alpha-cells is associated with transcriptome changes. We
hypothesized that microRNAs (miRNAs) which are negative regulators of mRNA
stability and translation could be involved in alpha-cell alterations or
adaptations during type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: miRNA microarray analyses were performed on pure alpha- and beta-cells
from high-fat diet fed obese hyperglycemic mice and low-fat diet fed controls.
Then, the most regulated miRNA was overexpressed or inhibited in primary culture 
of mouse and human alpha-cells to determine its molecular and functional impact.
RESULTS: 16 miRNAs were significantly regulated in alpha-cells of obese
hyperglycemic mice and 28 in beta-cells. miR-132-3p had the strongest regulation 
level in alpha-cells, where it was downregulated, while we observed an opposite
upregulation in beta-cells. In vitro experiments showed that miR-132-3p, which is
inversely regulated by somatostatin and cAMP, is a positive modulator of
alpha-cell proliferation and implicated in their resistance to apoptosis. These
effects are associated with the regulation of a series of genes, including
proliferation and stress markers Mki67 and Bbc3 in mouse and human alpha-cells,
potentially involved in miR-132-3p functions.
CONCLUSIONS: Downregulation of miR-132-3p in alpha-cells of obese diabetic mice
may constitute a compensatory mechanism contributing to keep glucagon-producing
cell number constant in diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND: In homeothermic animals, approximately 50% of daily energy
expenditure (EE) is spent to maintain a consistent core body temperature (CBT).
In humans, little is known about CBT responses to feeding and overfeeding and
their relationship to diet-related changes in EE.
OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of feeding and overfeeding on CBT and its
association with diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT).
DESIGN: Fifty-three healthy men with normal glucose regulation and a wide range
of body composition (mean ± SD, body fat: 25 ± 8%, range: 7-43%) had 24-h EE
assessed during fasting in a whole-room indirect calorimeter with concomitant CBT
measurement by ingestible capsules and 24-h urinary collection for catecholamine 
measurements. Changes in 24-h EE (DIT) and CBT compared to fasting were assessed 
during three normal-protein (20%) diets using a cross-over design: one eucaloric 
diet (EBL, 50% carbohydrate, n = 37) and two overfeeding diets with 200% energy
requirements: a high-fat (FNP, 60% fat, n = 25) and a high-carbohydrate (CNP; 75%
carbohydrate, n = 24) diet.
RESULTS: The average 24-h CBT (avgCBT) during fasting was 36.81 ± 0.14 °C
(inter-individual CV = 0.4%) and positively correlated with 24-h urinary
epinephrine (r = 0.61, p < 0.001), but not with body composition measures
(p > 0.05). AvgCBT increased during EBL (Δ = 0.06 ± 0.11 °C, p = 0.002), FNP
(Δ = 0.13 ± 0.14 °C, p < 0.001), and CNP (Δ = 0.19 ± 0.13 °C, p < 0.001) and
associated with increased DIT during EBL (r = 0.43, p = 0.01,
β = 31 kcal/day/0.1 °C) and FNP (r = 0.60, p = 0.002, β = 43 kcal/day/0.1 °C),
but not CNP (p = 0.47). A ceiling effect for the increase in CBT, but not in DIT,
was observed during feeding and, particularly, overfeeding.
CONCLUSIONS: CBT increases with feeding and is moderately associated with DIT to 
a different degree depending on the macronutrient composition of the overfeeding 
diet. There is a ceiling effect such that individuals with a higher CBT during
fasting have limited capacity to increase CBT with feeding. Because of body
thermoregulatory mechanisms that maintain a constant CBT, these results indicate 
that CBT has a limited role in the inter-individual variability in DIT.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia, a progressive age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass
and strength, leads to disability, falls, and hospitalisation. Individual
variation in sarcopenia onset may be partly explained by lifestyle factors such
as physical activity and diet. Healthy dietary patterns (DPs) have been linked to
better physical functioning in older adults, but their role in sarcopenia in the 
very old (aged ≥85) is unknown.
AIMS: To investigate the association between DPs and the risk of sarcopenia over 
3 years, and to determine whether protein intake influences this relationship in 
community-dwelling older adults from the Newcastle 85 + Study.
METHODS: The analytic sample consisted of 757 participants (61.2% women) who had 
dietary assessment at baseline. After two-step clustering with 30 food groups to 
derive DPs, we used logistic regression to determine the risk of prevalent and
incident sarcopenia across DPs in all participants, and in those with low
(<1 g/kg adjusted body weight/day [g/kg aBW/d]) and good protein intake (≥1 g/kg 
aBW/d).
RESULTS: We identified three DPs (DP1: 'Low Red Meat', DP2: 'Traditional British'
and DP3: 'Low Butter') that varied by unsaturated fat spreads/oils, butter, red
meat, gravy and potato consumption. Compared with participants in DP3, those in
DP2 had an increased risk of prevalent (OR = 2.42, 95% CI: 1.15-5.09, p = 0.02)
but not 3-year incident sarcopenia (OR = 1.67, 0.59-4.67, p = 0.33) adjusted for 
socio-demographic, anthropometry, health and lifestyle factors. Furthermore, DP2 
was associated with an increased risk of prevalent sarcopenia at baseline
(OR = 2.14, 1.01-4.53, p = 0.05) and 3-year follow-up (OR = 5.45, 1.81-16.39,
p = 0.003) after adjustment for key covariates in participants with good protein 
intake.
CONCLUSION: A DP high in foods characteristic of a traditional British diet
(butter, red meat, gravy and potato) was associated with an increased risk of
sarcopenia even when overall protein intake was good. The results need to be
replicated in other cohorts of the very old to understand the role of DPs in
sarcopenia onset and management.
EOF
Chitooligosaccharide is beneficial for inhibiting dyslipidemia and reducing
atherosclerotic and hyperlipidemic risk. The purpose of this study was to
investigate the cholesterol-regulating effects and potential mechanisms of
Chitooligosaccharide tablets (CFTs) in high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemic rats.
The results revealed that CFTs can regulate serum lipid levels in hyperlipidemic 
rats in a dosage-dependent manner. Synchronously, gene expressions related to
cholesterol excretion were upregulated in a dosage-dependent manner, including
cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), liver X receptor α (LXRA), peroxisome
proliferation-activated receptor-α (PPARα) and low-density lipoprotein receptor
(LDLR), whereas cholesterol synthetic gene expressions including
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) and sterol-responsive
element binding protein-2 (SREBP2) were reduced. This work highlights that CFTs
have potential as natural products to prevent and treat metabolic hyperlipidemia 
syndrome, probably due to the reduction of cholesterol biosynthesis and through
cholesterol elimination; they also improve the pathological changes of liver
tissue in rats, alleviate liver damage, maintain normal lipid metabolism in the
liver, ameliorate hepatic glycolipid disorders and accelerate TC operation, and
reduce blood lipid levels.
EOF
Obesity and certain nutritional deficiencies are global health problems that
emerge in systems of interdependent individual biological and historical factors 
and social environmental determinants of health. Nutrition security is a
framework that assumes stable access to sufficient innocuous and nutritious food 
(i.e., food security), health care, and sanitation, and information that in
conjunction allows self-care-oriented behavior for health protection. To
understand the social environment of nutrition insecurity, the object of study
was the food distribution and consumption system of a marginalized community in
Hermosillo, Mexico. We assessed the distribution of food establishments by social
marginalization level in basic geo-statistical areas and the nutrition security
status of women in underserved neighborhoods. We found that in Hermosillo >90% of
food establishments included for analysis (grocery stores, supermarkets,
convenience stores, and beer deposits) were distributed outside of areas with
high levels of social marginalization. The nutrition security assessment suggests
that low intakes of fruit and vegetables and high intakes of fat and sugar may be
associated with food accessibility and acceptability factors in individual
decision-making processes. Future research should take into account the
variability of food system environments and address the particular needs of
communities in terms of food and nutrition security.
EOF
In this paper, we present a study on the evaluation of the effect of xylanase
addition to a diet with an increasing content of modern hybrid rye (Brasetto
variety) on the performance indices and viscosity of small intestine content in
broiler chickens. A total of 560 1-day-old male Ross 308 chickens were randomly
assigned to 1 of 10 treatments, each comprising 7 replicate cages, with 8 male
birds per cage. A 5 × 2 factorial arrangement was employed, with five dietary
levels of ground rye (0%, 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%). All the diets were either
unsupplemented or supplemented with xylanase (200 mg/kg of feed; with minimum
xylanase activity 1000 FXU/g). In the starter rearing period (1⁻21 days of age), 
the inclusion of rye (without xylanase supplementation) to the diet, even at the 
lowest dietary level (5%), negatively affected body weight gain (p < 0.05); there
was no effect on feed intake and feed conversion ratio. In older chickens (the
grower-finisher rearing period; 22⁻42 days of age), none of the dietary levels of
rye (5⁻20%) affected growth performance indices. Similarly, no significant effect
of increasing dietary level of rye was found for the entire rearing period (1⁻42 
days of age). Diet supplementation with xylanase improved body weight gain and
feed conversion ratio in chickens from 1 to 21 days of age. No positive effect of
enzyme was found in older birds. No significant effects of the experimental
factors used were noticed on the results of slaughter analysis, i.e., the carcass
yield, breast meat yield, abdominal fat, and relative weight of the liver and
gizzard. A high dietary concentration of rye (20%) increased the viscosity of
small intestine content (p < 0.05); however, diet supplementation with xylanase
significantly alleviated this effect. The findings of this experiment indicated
that modern hybrid rye grain may be used at a 20% dietary level in broiler diets 
during the second feeding phase, i.e., from 22 to 42 days of age, without any
detrimental influence on growth performance indices, while enzyme (xylanase)
positively affected body weight gain and feed conversion ratio in younger chicks 
(1⁻21 days of age).
EOF
Obesity-related non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is connected with
mitochondrial stress and hepatocyte apoptosis. Parkin-related mitophagy sustains 
mitochondrial homeostasis and hepatocyte viability. However, the contribution and
regulatory mechanisms of Parkin-related mitophagy in NAFLD are incompletely
understood. Macrophage stimulating 1 (Mst1) is a novel mitophagy upstream
regulator which excerbates heart and cancer apoptosisn via repressing mitophagy
activity. The aim of our study is to explore whether Mst1 contributes to NAFLD
via disrupting Parkin-related mitophagy. A NAFLD model was generated in wild-type
(WT) mice and Mst1 knockout (Mst1-KO) mice using high-fat diet (HFD). Cell
experiments were conducted via palmitic acid (PA) treatment in the primary
hepatocytes. The results in our study demonstrated that Mst1 was significantly
upregulated in HFD-treated livers. Genetic ablation of Mst1 attenuated
HFD-mediated hepatic injury and sustained hepatocyte viability. Functional
studies illustrated that Mst1 knockdown reversed Parkin-related mitophagy and the
latter protected mitochondria and hepatocytes against HFD challenge. Besides, we 
further figured out that Mst1 modulated Parkin expression via the AMPK pathway;
blockade of AMPK repressed Parkin-related mitophagy and recalled hepatocytes
mitochondrial apoptosis. Altogether, our data identified that NAFLD was closely
associated with the defective Parkin-related mitophagy due to Mst1 upregulation. 
This finding may pave the road to new therapeutic modalities for the treatment of
fatty liver disease.
EOF
Insulin resistance is thought to be a common link between obesity and
Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD). NAFLD has now reached epidemic status 
worldwide and identification of molecules or pathways as newer therapeutic
strategies either to prevent or overcome insulin resistance seems critical.
Dysregulated hepatic lipogenesis (DNL) is a hallmark of NAFLD in humans and
rodents. Therefore, reducing DNL accretion may be critical in the development of 
therapeutics of NAFLD. In our in vivo model (high-fat-diet fed [HFD] obese mice) 
we found Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) significantly decreased HFD-induced
hepatic steatosis and peripheral insulin resistance. This protective mechanism of
ZnO NPs was signaled through hepatic SIRT1-LKB1-AMPK which restricted SREBP-1c
within the cytosol limiting its transcriptional ability and thereby ameliorating 
HFD mediated DNL. These observations indicate that ZnO NP can serve as a
therapeutic strategy to improve the physiological homeostasis during obesity and 
its associated metabolic abnormalities.
EOF
Atypical cannabinoid compounds O-1602 and O-1918 are ligands for the putative
cannabinoid receptors G protein-coupled receptor 55 and G protein-coupled
receptor 18. The role of O-1602 and O-1918 in attenuating obesity and
obesity-related pathologies is unknown. Therefore, we aimed to determine the role
that either compound had on body weight and body composition, renal and hepatic
function in diet-induced obesity. Male Sprague Dawley rats were fed a high fat
diet (40% digestible energy from lipids) or a standard chow diet for 10 weeks. In
a separate cohort, male Sprague Dawley rats were fed a high-fat diet for 9 weeks 
and then injected daily with 5mg/kg O-1602, 1mg/kg O-1918 or vehicle (0.9%
saline/ 0.75% Tween 80) for a further 6 weeks. Our data demonstrated that high
fat feeding up-regulates whole kidney G protein-receptor 55 expression. In
diet-induced obesity, we also demonstrated O-1602 reduces bodyweight, body fat
and improves albuminuria. Despite this, treatment with O-1602 resulted in gross
morphological changes in the liver and kidney. Treatment with O-1918 improved
albuminuria but did not alter bodyweight or fat composition. In addition,
treatment with O-1918 also up-regulated circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines
including IL-1α, IL-2, IL-17α, IL-18 and RANTES as well as plasma AST. Thus
O-1602 and O-1918 appear not to be suitable treatments for obesity and related
co-morbidities, due to their effects on organ morphology and pro-inflammatory
signalling in obesity.
EOF
The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase, sirtuin (SIRT)1, in 
skeletal muscle is reduced in insulin-resistant states. However, whether this is 
an initial mechanism responsible for mediating insulin resistance in human
skeletal muscle remains to be investigated. Also, SIRT1 acts as a mitochondrial
gene transcriptional regulator and is induced by a short-term, high-fat diet
(HFD) in human skeletal muscle. Whether saturated or unsaturated fatty acids
(FAs) in the diet are important for this is unknown. We subjected 17 healthy,
young men to a eucaloric control (Con) diet and 1 of 2 hypercaloric [+75% energy 
(E%)] HFDs for 3 d enriched in either saturated (Sat) FA (79 E% fat; Sat) or
unsaturated FA (78 E% fat; Unsat). After Sat, SIRT1 protein content and activity 
in skeletal muscle increased ( P < 0.05; ∼40%) while remaining unchanged after
Unsat. Whole-body insulin sensitivity and insulin-stimulated leg glucose uptake
were reduced ( P < 0.01; ∼20%) to a similar extent compared to Con after both
HFDs. We demonstrate a novel FA type-dependent regulation of SIRT1 protein in
human skeletal muscle. Moreover, regulation of SIRT1 does not seem to be an
initiating factor responsible for mediating insulin resistance in human skeletal 
muscle.-Fritzen, A. M., Lundsgaard, A.-M., Jeppesen, J. F., Sjøberg, K. A., Høeg,
L. D., Deleuran, H. H., Wojtaszewski, J. F. P., Richter, E. A., Kiens, B. Fatty
acid type-specific regulation of SIRT1 does not affect insulin sensitivity in
human skeletal muscle.
EOF
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Skeletal muscle accounts for >80% of insulin-stimulated glucose 
uptake; dysfunction of this process underlies insulin resistance and type 2
diabetes. Insulin sensitivity is impaired in mice deficient in the double C2
domain β (DOC2B) protein, while whole-body overexpression of DOC2B enhances
insulin sensitivity. Whether insulin sensitivity in the skeletal muscle is
affected directly by DOC2B or is secondary to an effect on other tissues is
unknown; the underlying molecular mechanisms also remain unclear.
METHODS: Human skeletal muscle samples from non-diabetic or type 2 diabetic
donors were evaluated for loss of DOC2B during diabetes development. For in vivo 
analysis, new doxycycline-inducible skeletal-muscle-specific Doc2b-overexpressing
mice fed standard or high-fat diets were evaluated for insulin and glucose
tolerance, and insulin-stimulated GLUT4 accumulation at the plasma membrane (PM).
For in vitro analyses, a DOC2B-overexpressing L6-GLUT4-myc myoblast/myotube
culture system was coupled with an insulin resistance paradigm. Biochemical and
molecular biology methods such as site-directed mutagenesis,
co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry were used to identify the molecular 
mechanisms linking insulin stimulation to DOC2B.
RESULTS: We identified loss of DOC2B (55% reduction in RNA and 40% reduction in
protein) in the skeletal muscle of human donors with type 2 diabetes.
Furthermore, inducible enrichment of DOC2B in skeletal muscle of transgenic mice 
enhanced whole-body glucose tolerance (AUC decreased by 25% for female mice) and 
peripheral insulin sensitivity (area over the curve increased by 20% and 26% for 
female and male mice, respectively) in vivo, underpinned by enhanced
insulin-stimulated GLUT4 accumulation at the PM. Moreover, DOC2B enrichment in
skeletal muscle protected mice from high-fat-diet-induced peripheral insulin
resistance, despite the persistence of obesity. In L6-GLUT4-myc myoblasts, DOC2B 
enrichment was sufficient to preserve normal insulin-stimulated GLUT4
accumulation at the PM in cells exposed to diabetogenic stimuli. We further
identified that DOC2B is phosphorylated on insulin stimulation, enhancing its
interaction with a microtubule motor protein, kinesin light chain 1 (KLC1).
Mutation of Y301 in DOC2B blocked the insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of DOC2B
and interaction with KLC1, and it blunted the ability of DOC2B to enhance
insulin-stimulated GLUT4 accumulation at the PM.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: These results suggest that DOC2B collaborates with
KLC1 to regulate insulin-stimulated GLUT4 accumulation at the PM and regulates
insulin sensitivity. Our observation provides a basis for pursuing DOC2B as a
novel drug target in the muscle to prevent/treat type 2 diabetes.

Early-life nutrition plays a critical role in fetal growth and development. Food 
intake absence and excess are the two main types of energy malnutrition that
predispose to the appearance of diseases in adulthood, according to the
hypothesis of 'developmental origins of health and disease'. Epidemiological data
have shown an association between early-life malnutrition and the metabolic
syndrome in later life. Evidence has also demonstrated that nutrition during this
period of life can affect the development of the immune system through epigenetic
mechanisms. Thus, epigenetics has an essential role in the complex interplay
between environmental factors and genetics. Altogether, this leads to the
inflammatory response that is commonly seen in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD), the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. In conjunction, DNA
methylation, covalent modification of histones and the expression of non-coding
RNA are the epigenetic phenomena that affect inflammatory processes in the
context of NAFLD. Here, we highlight current understanding of the mechanisms
underlying developmental programming of NAFLD linked to epigenetic modulation of 
the immune system and environmental factors, such as malnutrition.
EOF
RATIONALE: Inhibition of miR-33 reduces atherosclerotic plaque burden, but miR-33
deficient mice are predisposed to the development of obesity and metabolic
dysfunction. The pro-atherogenic effects of miR-33 are thought to be in large
part due to its repression of macrophage cholesterol efflux, through targeting of
ATP Binding Cassette Subfamily A Member 1 ( Abca1). However, targeting of other
factors may also be required for the beneficial effects of miR-33 and currently
available approaches have not allowed researchers to determine the specific
impact of individual miRNA target interactions in vivo.
OBJECTIVE: In this work, we sought to determine how specific disruption of Abca1 
targeting by miR-33 impacts macrophage cholesterol efflux and atherosclerotic
plaque formation in vivo.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We have generated a novel mouse model with specific point
mutations in the miR-33 binding sites of the Abca1 3'UTR, which prevents
targeting by miR-33. Abca1 binding site mutant ( Abca1BSM) mice had increased
hepatic ABCA1 expression, but did not show any differences in body weight or
metabolic function after high fat diet feeding. Macrophages from Abca1BSM mice
also had increased ABCA1 expression, as well as enhanced cholesterol efflux and
reduced foam cell formation. Moreover, LDLR deficient animals transplanted with
bone marrow from Abca1BSM mice had reduced atherosclerotic plaque formation,
similar to mice transplanted with bone marrow from miR-33 knockout mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the more pronounced phenotype of miR-33 deficient animals
suggests that other targets may also play an important role, our data clearly
demonstrate that repression of ABCA1 is primarily responsible for the
pro-atherogenic effects of miR-33. This work shows for the first time that
disruption of a single miRNA/target interaction can be sufficient to mimic the
effects of miRNA deficiency on complex physiologic phenotypes in vivo and
provides an approach by which to assess the impact of individual miRNA targets.
EOF
Menopause, the permanent cessation of the menstrual cycle, marks the end of a
woman's reproductive lifespan. In addition to changes in sex hormone levels
associated with menopause, its timing is another predictor of future health
outcomes such as duration of the presence of vasomotor symptoms (VMS) and the
risk of hormone-related cancers. With ageing of the population, it is estimated
that worldwide 1·2 billion women will be menopausal by the year 2030. Previously 
the effects of reproductive factors (e.g. parity, age at menarche, pregnancy) and
socio-demographic factors on intermediate and long-term health outcomes of
menopause have been widely documented. However, little is known about whether
diet could have an impact on these. Therefore, we review current evidence on the 
associations of diet with menopause, presence of VMS and the risk of
hormone-related cancers such as ovarian, endometrial and breast cancer. Dietary
factors could influence the lifespan of the ovaries and sex-hormones levels,
hence the timing of natural menopause. Few studies reported an association
between diet, in particular soya consumption, and a reduced risk of VMS.
Sustained oestrogen exposure has been associated with a higher risk of
hormone-related cancers and thus high-fat and meat diets have been linked with an
increased risk of these cancers. However, to better understand the mechanistic
pathways involved and to make stronger conclusions for these relationships,
further studies investigating the associations of dietary intakes and dietary
patterns with menopause, presence of VMS and the risk of hormone-related cancers 
are required.
EOF
High-fat diet (HFD) feeding induces inflammation in various tissues, including
the nodose ganglion and hypothalamus, resulting in obesity and metabolic
disorders. In this study, we investigated the effect of short-term HFD on aged
and young mice. Aged mice easily gained weight during short-term HFD feeding, and
required many days to adapt their energy intake. One-day HFD in aged mice induced
inflammation in the distal colon, but not in the nodose ganglion or hypothalamus.
The anorexic effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) was attenuated in aged
mice. Intraperitoneal administration of GLP-1 did not induce expression of genes 
that regulate feeding in the hypothalamus of aged mice. mRNA expression of the
gene encoding the GLP-1 receptor (Glp1r) in the nodose ganglion was significantly
lower in aged mice than in young mice. Our findings suggest that adaptation of
energy intake regulation was attenuated in aged mice, causing them to become
obese in response to short-term HFD feeding.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the use of super-resolution ultrasound (SR-US) imaging
for quantifying microvascular changes in skeletal muscle using a mouse model of
type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Study groups were young, standard chow-fed male C57BL/6J mice (lean
group) and high fat diet-fed older mice (obese group). After an overnight fast,
dynamic contrast-enhanced US imaging was performed on the proximal hind limb
adductor muscle group for 10 minutes at baseline and again at 1 and 2 hours
during administration of a hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp. Dynamic
contrast-enhanced US images were collected on a clinical US scanner (Acuson
Sequoia 512; Siemens Healthcare, Mountain View, CA) equipped with a 15L8 linear
array transducer. Dynamic contrast-enhanced US images were processed with a
spatiotemporal filter to remove tissue clutter. Individual microbubbles were
localized and counted to create an SR-US image. A frame-by-frame analysis of the 
microbubble count was generated (ie, time-microbubble count curve [TMC]) to
estimate tissue perfusion and microvascular blood flow. The conventional
time-intensity curve (TIC) was also generated for comparison.
RESULTS: In vivo SR-US imaging could delineate microvascular structures in the
mouse hind limb. Compared with lean animals, insulin-induced microvascular
recruitment was attenuated in the obese group. The SR-US-based TMC analysis
revealed differences between lean and obese animal data for select microvascular 
parameters (P < .04), which was not true for TIC-based measurements. Whereas the 
TMC and TIC microvascular parameters yielded similar temporal trends, there was
less variance associated with the TMC-derived values.
CONCLUSIONS: Super-resolution US imaging is a new modality for measuring the
microvascular properties of skeletal muscle and dysfunction from type 2 diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Aspirin eugenol ester (AEE) is a new drug compound
synthesized by combining aspirin with eugenol. It was reported to possess
anti-thrombotic, anti-atherosclerotic and anti-oxidative effects. However, its
molecular mechanism against oxidative injury is unclear. This study investigated 
how AEE affected the oxidative injury of vascular endothelial cells in vivo and
in vitro.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: The high diet fat (HFD) induced atherosclerotic hamsters
model and the model of H2 O2 -indcuced human umbilical vein endothelial cells
(HUVECs) apoptosis were to investigate the anti-oxidative effects of AEE.
KEY RESULTS: AEE significantly reduced the stimulatory effect of HFD on MDA, the 
inhibitory effect of HFD on SOD activity and GSH/GSSG ratio and the
overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the aorta induced by 
HFD. In vitro experiment, incubation of HUVECs with H2 O2 led to cells apoptosis,
dysfunctions of NO systems (including increased iNOS activity, decreased
endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity and increased production of
NO), the imbalance of calcium homeostasis and energy metabolism featured with the
increased intracellular free calcium and decreased ATP and downregulated Nrf2,
while in the HUVECs pre-treated with 1 μM AEE for 24 h, the above disorders
induced by H2 O2 were significantly ameliorated. Moreover, the effect of AEE on
reducing NO productions and the activity of iNOS was significantly attenuated in 
the Nrf2-inhibted HUVECs.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATION: AEE could protect vascular endothelial cells from
oxidative stress by regulating NOS and Nrf2 signaling pathways. This suggests
that AEE is a novel potential agent for the prevention of atherosclerosis.
EOF
Milk and dairy products are relevant components of daily diet and are part of
dietary recommendation in many countries due to their content of key nutrients.
However, the relatively high content of saturated fat of the milk and its
extensive usage for every age group raises concerns about its potential negative 
health effects. Therefore, in the last years, several researchers dedicated their
attention to milk production and quality. Milk fatty acids profile depend on cow 
feeding and in particular on the type of forage and concentrate and
forage/concentrate ratio. It was demonstrated that feeding dairy cows with a
70/30 forage/concentrate ratio yields milk with a low ω6:ω3 ratio and high CLA
levels. In this work, we demonstrated that the supplementation of rats diet with 
this high forage milk (HFM) results, in the skeletal muscle of these animals, in 
a reduced lipid content and inflammation levels, and an improved mitochondrial
lipid oxidation, and redox status through modulation of AMPK activity.
EOF
Background: Duodenal-jejunal bypass (DJB) is an important component of many types
of current bariatric surgery including Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, mini-gastric
bypass, biliopancreatic diversion, duodenal switch, and DJB plus sleeve
gastrectomy. Surgery is often observed to ameliorate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), but without a clearly delineated mechanism. In this study, we
investigated the effects of DJB in diet-induced obese rats with NASH.
Materials and methods: Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups and fed the
following diets over 6 months: A) normal chow (NC group, n=6); B)
methionine-choline-deficient (MCD)-high-fat (HF) diet (HF group, n=6); C) MCD-HF 
diet for 3 months followed by DJB and MCD-HF diet for subsequent 3 months (DJB
group, n=6); and D) MCD-HF diet for 3 months followed by treatment with
pioglitazone (PGZ) with MCD-HF diet for subsequent 3 months (PGZ group, n=6).
Body weight, glucose tolerance, the homeostatic model assessment-insulin
resistance index, and lipid profiles were compared. Liver and visceral adipose
tissue histology, inflammatory marker and hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activity,
and hepatocyte autophagy were assessed.
Results: Compared with the HF group, the DJB group showed improved body weight,
insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, and steatosis severity. The DJB group
exhibited a significantly lower nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score
than the HF and PGZ group (P<0.001 and P=0.003, respectively). Furthermore, DJB
significantly reduced fat mass and adipocyte size. These effects were also
observed in the PGZ group. Therefore, we speculated that the improvements induced
by DJB are closely related to an alteration in insulin sensitivity. Moreover, DJB
reduced HSC activity and TNF-α expression and enhanced hepatocyte autophagy.
Conclusion: DJB improves NASH through several mechanisms, particularly by
altering insulin sensitivity, inflammatory responses, HSC activity, and
hepatocyte autophagy.
EOF
5-Aminolevulinic acid, a natural amino acid, activates mitochondrial respiration 
and induces heme oxygenase-1 expression. Obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus are
associated with age-related mitochondrial respiration defect, oxidative stress
and inflammation. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of
5-aminolevulinic acid with sodium ferrous citrate on early renal damage and
hepatic steatosis. 7-Month-old C57BL/6 mice were fed with a standard diet or high
fat diet for 9 weeks, which were orally administered 300 mg/kg 5-aminolevulinic
acid combined with 47 mg/kg sodium ferrous citrate (5-aminolevulinic acid/sodium 
ferrous citrate) or vehicle for the last 5 weeks. We observed that
5-aminolevulinic acid/sodium ferrous citrate significantly decreased body weight,
fat weight, hepatic lipid deposits and improved levels of blood glucose and oral 
glucose tolerance test. In addition, 5-aminolevulinic acid/sodium ferrous citrate
suppressed increased glomerular tuft area in high fat diet-fed mice, which was
associated with increased heme oxygenase-1 protein expression. Our findings
demonstrate additional evidence that 5-aminolevulinic acid/sodium ferrous citrate
could improve glucose and lipid metabolism in diabetic mice. 5-Aminolevulinic
acid/sodium ferrous citrate has potential application in obesity or type 2
diabetes mellitus-associated disease such as diabetic nephropathy and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Gene-diet interactions may have an important role in the
disparities between the lipid responses of individuals to diet. This study aimed 
to investigate whether polymorphisms (rs5882 and rs3764261) in the cholesteryl
ester transfer protein (CETP) gene modify the association of diet with changes in
serum lipid profiles.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: A total of 4700 individuals aged ≥18 years were selected from
among participants of the Tehran Lipid and Glucose Study. After 3.6 years of
follow-up, changes in serum lipid profiles were evaluated. Usual dietary intake
was assessed using a validated food frequency questionnaire. DNA samples were
genotyped with HumanOmniExpress-24-v1-0 bead chips (containing 649,932 SNP loci).
RESULTS: No significant interaction was found between CETP polymorphisms and
dietary patterns in changing lipid profiles. Mean changes of total cholesterol
(TC) decreased in higher quartiles of fish intake in A allele carriers (Q1:8.02, 
Q4:5.58, Ptrend = 0.01) compared to the CC genotype (Q1:3.65, Q4:8.93,
Ptrend = 0.11) (Pi = 0.02). There are ascending trends of changes in triglyceride
(TG) concentrations across quartiles of total fat, monounsaturated and saturated 
fat consumption in G allele carriers of rs5882 compared to the AA genotype. There
was a declining trend for mean changes in TG concentrations across quartiles of
carbohydrate intake in G allele carriers of rs5882 compared to the AA genotype
(Pi = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrated that minor allele carriers of rs5882 had a
better TG value than AA homozygote individuals when consuming a low fat and high 
carbohydrate diet. Fish intake modifies the association of rs3764261with TC
concentrations.
EOF
Despite recent in vivo data demonstrating that high-fat diet (HFD)-induced
obesity leads to major perturbations in murine hematopoietic stem cells (HSC),
the direct role of a HFD is not yet completely understood. Here, we investigate
the direct impact of a short-term HFD on HSC and hematopoiesis in C57BL/6J mice
compared with standard diet-fed mice. We detect a loss of half of the most
primitive HSC in the bone marrow (BM) cells of HFD-fed mice, which exhibit lower 
hematopoietic reconstitution potential after transplantation. Impaired
maintenance of HSC is due to reduced dormancy after HFD feeding. We discover that
a HFD disrupts the TGF-β receptor within lipid rafts, associated to impaired
Smad2/3-dependent TGF-β signaling, as the main molecular mechanism of action.
Finally, injecting HFD-fed mice with recombinant TGF-β1 avoids the loss of HSC
and alteration of the BM's ability to recover, underscoring the fact that a HFD
affects TGF-β signaling on HSC.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of a new
I1-imidazoline receptor-selective pyrroline compound on the hemodynamic,
metabolic and microvascular alterations in a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced model of
metabolic syndrome in rats.
METHODS: In total, twenty adult male Wistar rats were fed a high-fat diet (HFD,
n = 20) for 20 weeks. Thereafter, the rats received a new pyrroline compound
selective for I1-imidazoline receptors (LNP599; 10 mg/kg/day) or vehicle
(n = 10/group) orally by gavage for 4 weeks. Functional microcirculation was
assessed using intravital video microscopy, and structural microcirculation was
evaluated using histochemical analysis.
RESULTS: LNP599 induced concomitant reductions in the SBP, HR and plasma
catecholamine levels. The animals treated with this new antihypertensive compound
also presented an improvement in body weight and the metabolic parameters related
to metabolic syndrome, such as the glucose and lipid profiles. These effects were
accompanied by a reversal of the functional and structural capillary rarefaction 
in the skeletal muscle.
CONCLUSIONS: The modulation of the sympathetic nervous system by a selective
agonist for I1-imidazoline receptors improves the hemodynamic and metabolic
parameters in an experimental model of metabolic syndrome. LNP599 can also
contribute to the restoration of microcirculatory parameters.
EOF
Dietary intake and nutritional status is an important environmental factor which 
can modulate metabolic-inflammation. In recent years, research has made
significant advances in terms of understanding the impact of dietary components
on metabolic-inflammation, within the context of obesity, type-2 diabetes (T2D)
and CVD risk. Our work demonstrated that different fatty acids differentially
modulate metabolic-inflammation, initially focusing on Nod-like receptor family, 
pyrin domain-containing three protein (NLRP3) inflammasome mediated IL-1β biology
and insulin signalling. However, the paradigm is more complex, wherein data from 
the immunology field clearly show that nature of cellular energy metabolism is a 
key determinant of inflammation. Whilst metabolic-inflammation is a critical
biological interaction, there is a paucity of data in relation to the nature and 
the extent to which nutritional status affects metabolic-inflammation. The
complex paradigm will be discussed within the context of if/how dietary
components, in particular fatty acids, may modulate obesity, T2D and CVD risk,
via inflammatory and metabolic processes.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Young adults (YA) are at high-risk for unhealthy dietary behaviors
and weight gain. The Study of Novel Approaches to Weight Gain Prevention (SNAP)
Trial demonstrated that two self-regulation approaches were effective in reducing
weight gain over 2 years compared with control. The goal of this analysis was to 
examine effects of intervention on dietary outcomes and the association of diet
changes with weight change.
METHODS: Participants were 599 YA, age 18-35 years, BMI 21.0-30.0 kg/m2
(27.4 ± 4.4 years; 25.4 ± 2.6 kg/m2; 22% men; 73% non-Hispanic White), who were
recruited in Providence, RI and Chapel Hill, NC and randomized to self-regulation
with Small Changes (SC), self-regulation with Large Changes (LC) or Control (C). 
SC and LC emphasized frequent self-weighing to cue behavior changes (small daily 
changes vs. periodic large changes) and targeted high-risk dietary behaviors.
Diet and weight were assessed at baseline, 4 months and 2 years.
RESULTS: LC and SC had greater decreases in energy intake than C at 4 months but 
not 2 years. LC had the greatest changes in percent calories from fat at
4 months, but differences were attenuated at 2 years. No differences in diet
quality were observed. Across conditions, increased total energy consumption,
fast food, meals away from home, and binge drinking, and decreased dietary
quality and breakfast consumption were all associated with weight gain at
2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests the need to strengthen interventions to produce 
longer term changes in dietary intake and helps to identify specific behaviors
associated with weight gain over time in young adults.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov # NCT01183689 , registered August 18,
2010.

BACKGROUND: What we eat as infants and children carries long-term consequences.
Apart from breastfeeding, the composition of the complementary diet, i.e. the
foods given to the infant during the transition from breast milk/infant formula
to regular family foods affects the child's future health. A high intake of
protein, a low intake of fruits, vegetables and fish and an unfavorable
distribution between polyunsaturated and saturated fats are considered to be
associate with health risks, e.g. obesity, type 2 diabetes and dyslipidemia later
in life.
METHODS: In a randomized, controlled study from 6 to 18 months of age we will
compare the currently recommended, Swedish complementary diet to one based on
Nordic foods, i.e. an increased intake of fruits, berries, vegetables, tubers,
whole-grain and game, and a lower intake of sweets, dairy, meat and poultry, with
lower protein content (30% decrease), a higher intake of vegetable fats and fish 
and a systematic introduction of fruits and greens. The main outcomes are body
composition (fat and fat-free mass measured with deuterium), metabolic and
inflammatory biomarkers (associated with the amount of body fat) in blood and
urine, gut microbiota (thought to be the link between early diet, metabolism and 
diseases such as obesity and insulin resistance) and blood pressure. We will also
measure the participants' energy and nutrient intake, eating behavior and
temperament through validated questionnaires, acceptance of new and unfamiliar
foods through video-taped test meals and assessment of cognitive development,
which we believe can be influenced through an increased intake of fish and milk
fats, notably milk fat globule membranes (MFGM).
DISCUSSION: If the results are what we expect, i.e. improved body composition and
a less obesogenic, diabetogenic and inflammatory metabolism and gut microbiota
composition, a more sustainable nutrient intake for future health and an
increased acceptance of healthy foods, they will have a profound impact on the
dietary recommendations to infants in Sweden and elsewhere, their eating habits
later in life and subsequently their long-term health.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02634749 . Registration date 18 December 2015.
EOF
Hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects of P. linteus have been observed in
numerous studies, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear. In this
study, we prepared P. linteus extract (PLE) from mycelia of solid-state culture, 
and evaluated its hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects in rat models of
high-fat diet (HFD)-induced and low-dose streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type 2
diabetes. PLE treatment effectively reduced blood glucose levels, and improved
insulin resistance and lipid and lipoprotein profiles. The hypoglycemic effect of
PLE was based on inhibition of key hepatic gluconeogenesis enzymes (FBPase,
G6Pase) expression and hepatic glycogen degradation, and consequent reduction of 
hepatic glucose production. PLE also: (i) enhanced expression of CPT1A and ACOX1 
(key proteins involved in fatty acid β-oxidation) and low-density lipoprotein
receptor (LDLR) in liver, thus promoting clearance of triglycerides and LDL-C;
(ii) inhibited expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase
(HMGCR) in liver, thus reducing cholesterol production; (iii) displayed strong
hepatoprotective and renal protective effects. Our findings indicate that PLE has
strong potential functional food application in adjuvant treatment of type 2
diabetes with dyslipidemia.
EOF
AIMS: Few studies have focused on the relationship between long-term fat intake
and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) risk in Asia where fat intake is relatively
lower than the Western countries. We examined association of dietary fat and
carbohydrate intake with incidence of T2D among Korean adults.
METHODS: Based on the data from the Korean Genome and Epidemiology Study, a total
of 5595 adults aged 40-69 years without diabetes, cardiovascular diseases or any 
cancer at baseline were included. Dietary intake was measured by the validated
semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. Cox proportional hazards
regression analysis was used to calculate multivariable-adjusted relative risks
(RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 138-months, 1010 cases of T2D were newly
determined. The proportion of participants with fat intake less than 15% of total
energy and with carbohydrate intake more than 65% of total energy was 59.0% and
88.9%, respectively. After adjusting for confounders, a very-low-fat intake was
associated with an increased risk of T2D (RR of Quartile 1 vs Quartile 4, 1.74;
95% CI, 1.18-2.57; p for trend = 0.0058) in women. A very-high-carbohydrate
intake was associated with an increased risk of T2D in men (RR of Quartile 4 vs
Quartile 1, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.03-2.30; p for trend = 0.0124) and women (RR of
Quartile 4 vs Quartile 1, 1.69; 95% CI, 1.08-2.67; p for trend = 0.0376).
CONCLUSIONS: A very-low-fat or very-high-carbohydrate intake may increase the T2D
risk and might be associated with lower intake of various nutrients and
unbalanced macronutrient composition.
EOF
AIMS: Type 2 diabetes and obesity are associated with chronic hypoxia, which
contributes to adipose tissue dysfunction and development of insulin resistance
and metabolic disorders. We assessed long-term effects of hyperoxia on browning
of adipocytes and carbohydrate metabolism in a murine model of type 2 diabetes.
MAIN METHODS: Male Wistar rats (190-210 g) were divided into 4 groups: Control,
O2-treated control, untreated diabetes, and O2-treated diabetes. Diabetes was
induced using high-fat diet followed by a low-dose of streptozotocin (30 mg/kg). 
Hyperoxia sessions were included 2-h exposure to 95% oxygen, repeated 6 days/week
for 5 weeks. Serum fasting glucose, insulin, lactate, and lipid profiles were
measured before, during, and after hyperoxia. Glucose and pyruvate tolerance
tests, and histological evaluations of interscapular and epididymal fats were
done at the end of study.
KEY FINDINGS: O2-treated diabetic rats compared to untreated ones, displayed
lower weight gain, improved glucose-tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and more
favorable lipid profile. In diabetic rats, hyperoxia increased surface area
(6.36 ± 0.93 vs. 0.86 ± 0.16 mm2, P < 0.001), and volume density (1.53 ± 0.22 vs.
0.21 ± 0.04 mm3, P < 0.001) of interscapular adipose tissue; hyperoxia also
increased uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), protein levels of peroxisome proliferator 
activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ), and PPAR-γ coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1-α) in
interscapular adipose tissue. The numerical density (541.7 ± 7.3 vs.
298.1 ± 11.7 mm3, P < 0.001) of epididymal fat were also higher.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study showed that beneficial metabolic effects of hyperoxia in
obese type 2 diabetic rats including improved insulin sensitivity and glucose
tolerance are at least in part due to browning of adipose tissue.
EOF
Inappropriate dietary habits influence the development of excessive body weight. 
The role of added sugars, including fructose, notably is significant in this
process. It is estimated that fructose intake has increased many times over the
past two centuries. The aim of the study was to define the effect of fructose
consumption on anthropometric indices and lipid metabolism in obese (body mass
index (BMI) >30 kg/m2) children and adolescents. The study included 84 patients
(47 girls and 37 boys) aged 7-18 years, divided into prepubertal, pubertal, and
post-pubertal age groups. Aside from BMI, the assessment comprised waist
circumference, body composition estimated with bioelectrical impedance (BIA),
plasma lipid profile, fructose intake consumption based on a 3-day menu analysis,
and a number of calculated atherogenic indices. The major findings were that
total daily fructose intake was high, on average, ranging from 19 to 26 g, with
no appreciable relation to age. A higher fructose intake from beverages is
significantly associated with the percentage of body fat, waist circumference,
waist-to-height ratio, and also with the content of total cholesterol,
triglycerides, and the level of atherogenic indices. In conclusion, fructose
appears a particularly unfavorable component in children's diet as it is
conducive to visceral obesity and atherogenic lipid profile. However, inadequate 
proportions of other macronutrients may also be at play in the development of
metabolic diet-related disorders.
EOF
The gut microbiota has been linked to various neurological disorders via the
gut-brain axis. Diet influences the composition of the gut microbiota. The
ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat, adequate-protein, low-carbohydrate diet
established for treatment of therapy-resistant epilepsy in children. Its efficacy
in reducing seizures has been confirmed, but the mechanisms remain elusive. The
diet has also shown positive effects in a wide range of other diseases, including
Alzheimer's, depression, autism, cancer, and type 2 diabetes. We collected fecal 
samples from 12 children with therapy-resistant epilepsy before starting KD and
after 3 months on the diet. Parents did not start KD and served as diet controls.
Applying shotgun metagenomic DNA sequencing, both taxonomic and functional
profiles were established. Here we report that alpha diversity is not changed
significantly during the diet, but differences in both taxonomic and functional
composition are detected. Relative abundance of bifidobacteria as well as E.
rectale and Dialister is significantly diminished during the intervention. An
increase in relative abundance of E. coli is observed on KD. Functional analysis 
revealed changes in 29 SEED subsystems including the reduction of seven pathways 
involved in carbohydrate metabolism. Decomposition of these shifts indicates that
bifidobacteria and Escherichia are important contributors to the observed
functional shifts. As relative abundance of health-promoting, fiber-consuming
bacteria becomes less abundant during KD, we raise concern about the effects of
the diet on the gut microbiota and overall health. Further studies need to
investigate whether these changes are necessary for the therapeutic effect of KD.
EOF
BACKGROUND: In non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a high-fat or
high-fructose diet increases intestinal permeability and promotes derangement of 
the gut-liver axis. We hypothesize that, diet could be able to modulate
intestinal permeability in patients with NAFLD.
AIM: To detect diet-induced modification of intestinal permeability in patients
with NAFLD undergoing a Mediterranean diet or a low-fat diet.
METHODS: The current study was a dietary intervention for non-diabetic, patients 
with biopsy-verified NAFLD and increased transaminases. A crossover design was
employed: participants underwent 16 weeks of Mediterranean diet, 16 wk of free
wash-out, and 16 weeks of low-fat diet. Both diets were hypocaloric and no
consumption of supplements was allowed. All patients were followed bimonthly by a
dietitian. Evaluations of clinical and metabolic parameters were completed at
baseline and at the end of each dietary period. Intestinal permeability was
assessed by chromium-51 ethylene diamine tetraacetate excretion testing
(51Cr-EDTA).
RESULTS: Twenty Caucasian patients, 90% male, median age 43 years, body mass
index (BMI) 30.9, with biopsy-verified NAFLD were enrolled. At the end of 16
weeks of a Mediterranean diet, a significant reduction in mean body weight (-5.3 
± 4.1 kg, P = 0.003), mean waist circumference (-7.9 ± 4.9 cm, P = 0.001), and
mean transaminase levels [alanine aminotransferase (ALT) -28.3 ± 11.9 IU/L, P =
0.0001; aspartate aminotransferase (AST) -6.4 ± 56.3 IU/L, P = 0.01] were
observed. These benefits were maintained after 16 wk of wash-out and also after
16 wk of low-fat diet, without further improvements. Fourteen of the 20 patients 
had intestinal permeability alteration at baseline (mean percentage retention of 
51Cr-EDTA = 5.4%), but no significant changes in intestinal permeability were
observed at the end of the 16 wk of the Mediterranean diet or 16 wk of the
low-fat diet.
CONCLUSION: Mediterranean diet is an effective strategy for treating overweight, 
visceral obesity and serum transaminase in patients with NAFLD. If the
Mediterranean diet can improve intestinal permeability in patients with NAFLD, it
deserves further investigation.
EOF
The biochemical response to food intake must be precisely regulated. Because
ingested sugars and fats can feed into many anabolic and catabolic pathways1, how
our bodies handle nutrients depends on strategically positioned metabolic sensors
that link the intrinsic nutritional value of a meal with intermediary metabolism.
Here we describe a subset of immune cells-integrin β7+ natural gut
intraepithelial T lymphocytes (natural IELs)-that is dispersed throughout the
enterocyte layer of the small intestine and that modulates systemic metabolism.
Integrin β7- mice that lack natural IELs are metabolically hyperactive and, when 
fed a high-fat and high-sugar diet, are resistant to obesity,
hypercholesterolaemia, hypertension, diabetes and atherosclerosis. Furthermore,
we show that protection from cardiovascular disease in the absence of natural
IELs depends on the enteroendocrine-derived incretin GLP-12, which is normally
controlled by IELs through expression of the GLP-1 receptor. In this metabolic
control system, IELs modulate enteroendocrine activity by acting as gatekeepers
that limit the bioavailability of GLP-1. Although the function of IELs may prove 
advantageous when food is scarce, present-day overabundance of diets high in fat 
and sugar renders this metabolic checkpoint detrimental to health.
EOF
Activation of inflammation is an important mechanism in the development of
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). This study aims to delineate how mitophagy
affects NLRP3 inflammasome activation in hepatic lipotoxicity. Mice were fed a
high fat/calorie diet (HFCD) for 24 weeks. Primary rat hepatocytes were treated
with palmitic acid (PA) for various periods of time. Mitophagy was measured by
protein levels of LC3II and P62. NLRP3, caspase-1, interleukin (IL)-18, and IL-1β
at mRNA and protein levels were used as indicators of inflammasome activation.
Along with steatotic progression in HFCD-fed mice, ratio of LC3II/β-actin was
decreased concurrently with increased levels of liver P62, NLRP3, caspase-1,
IL-1β, IL-18, and serum IL-1β levels in late-stage NASH. PA treatment resulted in
mitochondrial oxidative stress and initiated mitophagy in primary hepatocytes.
The addition of cyclosporine A did not change LC3II/Τοmm20 ratios; but P62 levels
were increased after an extended duration of PA exposure, indicating a defect in 
autophagic activity. Along with impaired mitophagy, mRNA and protein levels of
NLRP3, caspase-1, IL-18 and IL-1β were upregulated by PA treatment. Pretreatment 
with MCC950, N-acetyl cysteine or acetyl-L-carnitine reversed inflammasome
activation and a pyroptotic cascade. Additionally, mitophagic flux was partially 
recovered as indicated by increases in LC3II/Tomm20 ratio, parkin, and PINK1
expression, and decreased P62 expression. The findings suggest that impaired
mitophagy triggers hepatic NLRP3 inflammasome activation in a murine NASH model
and primary hepatocytes. The new insights into inflammasome activation through
mitophagy advance our understanding of how fatty acids elicit lipotoxicity
through oxidant stress and autophagy in mitochondria.
EOF
Obesity-induced adipose-tissue dysfunction is a critical contributor to the
pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). B cell-activating
factor (BAFF) is an adipokine related to impaired insulin sensitivity, and the
serum BAFF concentration is associated with NAFLD severity. In this study, we
aimed to determine the direct in vivo role of BAFF in the development of insulin 
resistance, adipocyte dysfunction, and hepatic steatosis using BAFF-/- mice fed a
high-fat diet (HFD). HFD-fed BAFF-/- mice exhibited significantly improved
insulin sensitivity despite their increased weight gain and adiposity relative to
HFD-fed wild-type mice. Moreover, inflammation, especially the accumulation of
CD11c+ adipose-tissue macrophages, and fibrosis of epididymal adipose tissue were
reduced, contributing to healthy adipose-tissue expansion in obese BAFF-/- mice. 
In line with metabolically healthy obesity, hepatic steatosis also decreased, and
we observed attenuated de novo lipogenesis in both the livers and hepatocytes of 
BAFF-/- mice. Our data revealed that BAFF serves as a potential stimulator of
unhealthy adipose-tissue expansion by triggering inflammation and fibrosis and
ultimately leading to enhanced insulin resistance and NAFLD. Therefore, these
results suggest that BAFF is a promising target for diabetes and NAFLD treatment.
EOF
The incidence of urinary stone disease (USD) has increased four-fold in 50 years.
Oxalate, which is degraded exclusively by gut bacteria, is an important
constituent in 80% of urinary stones. We quantified the effects of antibiotics
and a high fat/high sugar (HFHS) diet on the microbial metabolism of oxalate in
the gut. High and low oxalate-degrading mouse models were developed by
administering fecal transplants from either the wild mammalian rodent Neotoma
albigula or Swiss-Webster mice to Swiss-Webster mice, which produces a microbiota
with or without the bacteria necessary for persistent oxalate metabolism,
respectively. Antibiotics led to an acute loss of both transplant bacteria and
associated oxalate metabolism. Transplant bacteria exhibited some recovery over
time but oxalate metabolism did not. In contrast, a HFHS diet led to an acute
loss of function coupled with a gradual loss of transplant bacteria, indicative
of a shift in overall microbial metabolism. Thus, the effects of oral antibiotics
on the microbiome form and function were greater than the effects of diet.
Results indicate that both antibiotics and diet strongly influence microbial
oxalate metabolism.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have identified strong relationships between 
maternal obesity and offspring respiratory dysfunction; however, the causal
direction is not known. We tested whether maternal obesity alters respiratory
function of offspring in early life.
METHODS: Female C57Bl/6 J mice were fed a high or low fat diet prior to and
during two rounds of mating and resulting pregnancies with offspring lung
function assessed at 2 weeks of age. The lung function of dams was measured at
33 weeks of age.
RESULTS: A high fat diet caused significant weight gain prior to conception with 
dams exhibiting elevated fasting glucose, and glucose intolerance. The number of 
surviving litters was significantly less for dams fed a high fat diet, and
surviving offspring weighed more, were longer and had larger lung volumes than
those born to dams fed a low fat diet. The larger lung volumes significantly
correlated in a linear fashion with body length. Pups born from the second
pregnancy had reduced tissue elastance compared to pups born from the first
pregnancy, regardless of the dam's diet. As there was reduced offspring survival 
born to dams fed a high fat diet, the statistical power of lung function measures
of offspring was limited. There were signs of increased inflammation in the
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of dams (but not offspring) fed a high fat diet,
with more tumour necrosis factor-α, interleukin(IL)-5, IL-33 and leptin detected.
Dams that were fed a high fat diet and became pregnant twice had reduced fasting 
glucose immediately prior to the second mating, and lower levels of IL-33 and
leptin in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.
CONCLUSIONS: While maternal high fat diet compromised litter survival, it also
promoted somatic and lung growth (increased lung volume) in the offspring.
Further studies are required to examine downstream effects of this enhanced lung 
volume on respiratory function in disease settings.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Chronic stress may lead to augmented incidence rates of coronary and
cerebrovascular diseases associated with atherosclerosis. However, few studies
have focused on the effect of chronic stress on atherosclerosis plaque formation.
Therefore, this study was designed to directly evaluate how chronic stress
affects atherosclerosis.
METHODS: Thirty rabbits were divided into three groups: the control group,
balloon-injury operation + high-fat diet model group, and chronic
stress + balloon-injury operation + high-fat diet model group. Physical and
social stress were induced, and proteomic methods were applied to identify
specific markers.
RESULTS: After protein determination, the chronic stress + balloon-injury
operation + high-fat diet model group exhibited significant upregulation of the
following apoptosis-related proteins: UBE2K, caspase 3, caspase 9, BAX, P53, and 
FAS. In particular, real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that the protein
expression of caspase 9 was significantly downregulated in the stress group
compared with the non-stress groups. However, the other proteins showed
significantly increased expression in the stress group.
CONCLUSION: Chronic stress may promote cell apoptosis in the physiopathologic
process of atherosclerosis.
EOF
Many studies have shown that resistant maltodextrin (RMD) possesses blood
cholesterol lowering and anti-obesity effects. In order to investigate the effect
of RMD on lipid metabolism in the liver, rats were fed with a high-fat (HF) diet 
for 7 weeks to induce hyperlipidemia and fatty liver. Normal control rats were
fed with a normal diet. HF-diet-fed rats were treated with 5% RMD for 8 weeks.
The results showed that the increased plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities, the increased hepatic triglyceride and
total cholesterol levels, and fatty liver in HF-diet-fed rats were significantly 
decreased after supplementation with RMD. Supplementation with RMD significantly 
(1) induced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation; (2) inhibited
the activities of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), fatty acid synthase (FAS), and
HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR); (3) suppressed the protein expression of peroxisome
proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)-γ; (4) increased β-oxidation of fatty
acids by increasing the protein expression carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1α
(CPT-1α) in the livers of HF-diet-fed rats. Taken together, supplementation of
RMD was capable of inhibiting lipogenic enzyme activities and inducing fatty acid
β-oxidation through increasing AMPK activation, thereby reducing lipid
accumulation in the liver.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Evidence suggests that cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1R) activation is
associated with increased food intake and body weight gain. Human epidemiological
studies, however, show decreased prevalence of obesity in cannabis users. Given
the overlapping and complementary functions of the cannabinoid receptors (CB1R
and CB2R), mice lacking CB2R and mice lacking both CB1R and CB2R were studied.
METHODS: A high-fat diet was used to study metabolic changes in male mice lacking
CB2R (CB2-/- ) or lacking both CB1R and CB2R (double-knockout [CB-DKO]) compared 
with wild-type mice.
RESULTS: When CB2-/- mice were maintained on a high-fat diet, their weight gain
was not different from wild-type mice (gaining 19 and 21 g, respectively),
whereas CB-DKO mice gained only 5 g. There were no significant differences in
food intake or locomotor activity between the three groups. Respiratory exchange 
rate and heat production were elevated in CB-DKO mice, with upregulation of
adipose tissue thermogenic genes. Glucose tolerance test and insulin levels
indicated increased insulin sensitivity in CB-DKO mice, whereas CB2-/- displayed 
signs of impaired glucose clearance.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that lacking both CB1R and CB2R protected
mice from diet-induced obesity, possibly through the prominent role of CB1R in
obesity or through an interactive effect of both receptors.
EOF
Obesity, characterized by increased adiposity that develops when energy intake
outweighs expenditure, is rapidly becoming a serious health crisis that affects
millions of people worldwide and is associated with severe comorbid disorders
including hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and type II diabetes. Obesity is 
also associated with the dysregulation of central neurocircuits involved in the
control of autonomic, metabolic, and cognitive functions. Systemic inflammation
associated with diet-induced obesity (DIO) has been proposed to be responsible
for the development of these comorbidities as well as the dysregulation of
central neurocircuits. A growing body of evidence suggests, however, that
exposure to a high fat diet (HFD) may cause neuroinflammation and astroglial
activation even before systemic inflammation develops, which may be sufficient to
cause dysregulation of central neurocircuits involved in energy homeostasis prior
to the development of obesity. The purpose of this review is to summarize the
current literature exploring astroglial-dependent modulation of central circuits 
following exposure to HFD and DIO, including not only dysregulation of
neurocircuits involved in energy homeostasis and feeding behavior, but also in
the dysregulation of learning, memory, mood, reward pathways.
EOF
We previously developed a model of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in which
dams exhibit glucose intolerance, insulin resistance and reduced insulin response
to glucose challenge only during pregnancy, without accompanying obesity. Here,
we aimed to determine how lean gestational glucose intolerance affects offspring 
risk of metabolic dysfunction. One cohort of offspring was sacrificed at 19
weeks, and one at 31 weeks, with half of the second cohort placed on a high fat
high sucrose diet (HFHS) at 23 weeks. Exposure to maternal glucose intolerance
increased weights of HFHS-fed offspring. Chow-fed offspring of GDM dams exhibited
higher body fat percentages at 4, 12 and 20 weeks of age. At 28 weeks, offspring 
of GDM dams fed the HFHS but not the chow diet (CD) also had higher body fat
percentages than offspring of controls (CON). Exposure to GDM increased the
respiratory quotient (Vol CO2/Vol O2) in offspring. Maternal GDM increased
adipose mRNA levels of Pparg and Adipoq in 31 week old CD-fed male offspring, and
increased mRNA levels of Insr and Lpl in 31 week old male offspring on both
diets. In liver at 31 weeks, mRNA levels of Ppara were elevated in CD-fed male
offspring of GDM dams, and male offspring of GDM dams exhibited higher mRNA
levels of Insr on both diets. Neither fasting insulin nor glucose tolerance was
affected by exposure to GDM. Our findings show that GDM comprising glucose
intolerance only during pregnancy programs increased adiposity in offspring, and 
suggests increased insulin sensitivity of subcutaneous adipose tissue.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Obesity is known as one of the major causes of epidemiologic diseases
worldwide; therefore, the introduction of treatment strategies by medical
professionals, such as the use of various medicines and exercise programs to
reduce fat or prevent obesity, is on the rise. Recently, researchers have shown
special interest in assessing the effect of lipolytic adenosine and vitamin D
deficiency, as well as the effect of exercise, on decreasing body fat percentage.
OBJECTIVE: This study has been designed to examine the effect of adenosine and
vitamin D3 injections, in conjunction with high-intensity interval training and
isocaloric moderate-intensity training, on the metabolic parameters of obesity
induced by a high-fat diet.
METHODS: This is an experimental study using 92 Wistar rats. At 6 weeks of age,
the rats' weights will be recorded, after which they will have 1 week to adapt to
their new environment before being divided into 12 groups. The rats will
participate in a 2-stage experimental intervention, including a 13-week fattening
diet phase followed by a 12-week exercise training phase consisting of an
exercise program and the injection of adenosine and vitamin D3. Groups 1 and 2
will have a normal diet, and the other groups will have a diet of 40% fat, with
free access to food and water up to the second half of the second stage of the
study (end of the sixth week of training). After termination of the
interventions, tissue collection and molecular assessments (blood for
biochemical, tissues for gene expression analyses, and anthropometrical indexes) 
will be performed.
RESULTS: The project was initiated in April 2017 and completed in December 2017. 
Data analysis is under way, and the first results are expected to be submitted
for publication in November 2018.
CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesize that weight loss-induced molecular changes and
upregulation will be observed in line with an increase in lipolysis and beta
oxidation in muscle and fat tissue as a result of performing isocaloric training 
in drug-receiving rats and groups on a high-fat diet.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR1-10.2196/10753.
EOF
Activity of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is high in mouse kidney, but the reason is
poorly understood. The aim was to characterize localization, regulation and
function of LPL in kidney of C57BL/6J mice. We found LPL mainly in proximal
tubules, localized inside the tubular epithelial cells, under all conditions
studied. In fed mice some LPL colocalized with the endothelial markers CD31 and
GPIHBP1, and could be removed by perfusion with heparin, indicating a vascular
location. The role of angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) for nutritional
modulation of LPL activity was studied in wild-type and Angptl4-/- mice. In
Angptl4-/- mice, kidney LPL activity remained high in fasted animals, indicating 
that ANGPTL4 is involved in suppression of LPL activity on fasting, like in
adipose tissue. The amount of ANGPTL4 protein in kidney was low, and the protein 
appeared smaller in size, compared to ANGPTL4 in heart and adipose tissue. To
study the influence of obesity, mice were challenged with high-fat diet for 22
weeks, and LPL was studied after an overnight fast, compared to fasted mice given
food for 3 hours. High-fat diet caused blunting of the normal adaptation of LPL
activity to feeding/fasting in adipose tissue, but in kidneys this adaptation was
only lost in male mice. LPL activity increases to high levels in mouse kidney
after feeding, but as no difference in uptake of chylomicron triglycerides in
kidneys is found between fasted and fed states, our data confirm that LPL appears
to have a minor role for lipid uptake in this organ.
EOF
Introduction: Exposure to the fine particulate matter PM2.5 is strongly
associated with atherosclerotic diseases, creating considerable public concern.
Nevertheless, the mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. We exposed
atherosclerosis-prone apoE-deficient mice to PM2.5 to begin investigating these
mechanisms.
Material and methods: Thirty-two 8-week-old male apoE-/- mice were divided to two
groups fed with high-fat diet: a control group instilled with 0.9% saline, and an
experimental group instilled with PM2.5 (30 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks. We measured
PM2.5 in whole blood by the ICP-MS method, and lipids and inflammatory factors by
standard methods. The whole descending arteries were stained with oil red O;
Aortic roots were stained with Movat, Sirius Red and immunohistochemical stains
for pathological analysis; Brachiocephalic arteries for scanning electron
microscopy, the descending arteries for Q-PCR. Echocardiography was used to
evaluate cardiac function.
Results: In PM2.5 group, we observed elevated heavy metal components, consistent 
with higher amounts of platelets in total blood. The PM2.5 group also had
elevated serum inflammatory factor levels. Finally, the PM2.5 group showed larger
atherosclerotic plaques (p = 0.0231), higher numbers of lesion macrophages (p =
0.0183), greater injury to endothelial layers with greater adherence of platelets
and leukocytes, elevated inflammatory factor levels, the NAD(P)H oxidase subunits
p22phox and p47phox (p = 0.0079 and p = 0.0294), the M1/M2 associated markers
IL-6, TNF-α (p = 0.0291, p = 0.0286), iNOS, IL-12 (p = 0.0122 and p = 0.0280) and
arginase-1, and CD206 (p = 0.0216 and p = 0.0317).
Conclusions: PM2.5 exposure activated circulating leukocytes, platelets and
associated inflammatory factors, contributing to the progression of
atherosclerosis in apoE-/- mice.
EOF
Dietary habits have a profound impact on intestinal homeostasis and in general on
human health. In Western countries, high intake of calories derived from fried
products, butter and processed meat is favored over dietary regimens rich in
fruits and vegetables. This type of diet is usually referred to as Western-type
diet (WTD) and it has been associated with several metabolic and chronic
inflammatory conditions of the gastrointestinal tract. In this review, we
describe how WTD promotes intestinal and extra-intestinal inflammation and alters
mucosal immunity acting on CD4+ T cells in a microbiota-dependent or -independent
fashion, ultimately leading to higher susceptibility to infectious and autoimmune
diseases. Moreover, summarizing recent findings, we propose how dietary
supplementation with fiber and vitamins could be used as a tool to modulate CD4+ 
T cell phenotype and function, ameliorating inflammation and restoring mucosal
homeostasis.
EOF
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with increased risk of
metabolic disorders in offspring in later life. Although mounting evidence
suggests that therapy for GDM could improve neonatal health, it is not known
whether the therapy confers long-term metabolic benefits to offspring in their
later adult lives. Here, using a mouse model of diabetes in the latter half of
pregnancy to mimic human GDM, we find that the efficient insulin therapy of GDM
confers significant protection against glucose intolerance and obesity in
offspring fed on normal chow diet. However, the therapy fails to protect
offspring when challenged with a high fat diet, especially for male offspring.
Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of pancreatic islets from male offspring
identified hypermethylated regions in several genes that regulate insulin
secretion, including Abcc8, Cav1.2 and Cav2.3 that encode KATP or Ca2+ channels, 
which is associated with reduced gene expression and impaired insulin secretion. 
This finding suggests a methylation-mediated epigenetic mechanism for GDM-induced
intergenerational glucose intolerance. It highlights that even efficient insulin 
therapy of GDM is insufficient to fully protect adult offspring from diet-induced
metabolic disorders.
EOF
Fucoidan, a natural sulfated polysaccharide, displays various biological
activities including antioxidant properties. We examined the neuroprotective
effect of fucoidan against transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) in high-fat 
diet (HFD)-induced obese gerbils and its related mechanisms. Gerbils received HFD
for 12 weeks and fucoidan (50 mg/kg) daily for the last 5 days during HFD
exposure, and they were subjected to 5-min tGCI. Pyramidal cell death was
observed only in the CA 1 area (CA1) of the hippocampus in non-obese gerbils 5
days after tGCI. However, in obese gerbils, pyramidal cell death in the CA1 and
CA2/3 occurred at 2 days and 5 days, respectively, after tGCI. In the obese
gerbils, oxidative stress indicators (dihydroethidium, 8-hydroxyguanine and
4-hydroxy-2-nonenal) were significantly enhanced and antioxidant enzymes (SOD1
and SOD2) were significantly reduced in pre- and post-ischemic phases compared to
the non-obese gerbils. Fucoidan treatment attenuated acceleration and
exacerbation of tGCI-induced neuronal death in the CA1⁻3, showing that oxidative 
stress was significantly reduced, and antioxidant enzymes were significantly
increased in pre- and post-ischemic phases. These findings indicate that
pretreated fucoidan can relieve the acceleration and exacerbation of ischemic
brain injury in an obese state via the attenuation of obesity-induced severe
oxidative damage.
EOF
Resveratrol, also known as 3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene, is a natural polyphenol
that occurs as a phytoalexin. It is produced by plant sources such as grapes,
apples, blueberries, plums, peanuts, and other oilseeds. This compound has a
variety of effects on human health and diseases. This review summarizes the
mounting evidence that resveratrol is helpful in treating metabolic syndrome and 
related disorders. Resveratrol can be provided either early as a reprogramming
agent or later as part of treatment. A few of the main mechanisms underlying the 
beneficial effects of resveratrol on metabolic syndrome are outlined. This review
also discusses the potential of resveratrol derivatives as a complementary or
alternative medicine. In conclusion, resveratrol could be a useful regimen for
the prevention and treatment of metabolic syndrome and its related conditions.
EOF
AIM: Selenium, a trace element involved in important enzymatic activities inside 
the body, has protective effects against cardiovascular diseases including
atherosclerosis. The safe dose of selenium in the organism is very narrow,
limiting the supplementation of selenium in diet. The aim of this study is to
explore whether selenium quantum dots (SeQDs) prevent atherosclerosis and to
investigate the potential mechanisms.
METHODS: An amorphous form of SeQDs (A-SeQDs) and a crystalline form of SeQDs
(C-SeQDs) were prepared through self-redox decomposition of selenosulfate
precursor. Endothelial dysfunction was induced by balloon injury plus high fat
diet (HFD) in rats. Atherosclerotic model was established by feeding Apoe-/- mice
with HFD.
RESULTS: Administrations of A-SeQDs but not C-SeQDs dramatically improved
endothelium-dependent relaxation, and accelerated would healing in primary
endothelial cells isolated from rats, which was comprised by co-treatment of
LiCl. Lentivirus-mediated knockdown of Na+/H+ exchanger 1 (NHE1) abolished
LiCl-induced endothelial dysfunction in rats. In cultured endothelial cells,
A-SeQDs, as well as cariporide, inhibited NHE1 activities, decreased
intracellular pH value and Ca2+ concentration, and reduced calpain activity
increased by ox-LDL. These protective effects of A-SeQDs were reversed by LiCl
treatment in endothelial cells. In Apoe-/- mice feeding with HFD, A-SeQDs
prevented endothelial dysfunction and reduced the size of atherosclerotic plaque 
in aortic arteries. Further, lentivirus-mediated NHE1 gene overexpression
abolished the protective effects of A-SeQDs against endothelial dysfunction and
atherosclerosis in Apoe-/- mice.
CONCLUSION: A-SeQDs prevents endothelial dysfunction and the growth of
atherosclerotic plaque through NHE1 inhibition and subsequent inactivation of
Ca2+/calpain signaling. Clinically, the administration of A-SeQDs is an effective
approach to treat atherosclerosis.
EOF
BACKGROUND: MAP kinases, CREB, and Tau are signaling molecules among downstream
synaptic targets involved in synaptic function, memory formation and cognition.
PURPOSE: Here we investigate the neuro-protective effect of selenium in insulin
resistant rat induced cognitive impairment by HFHCD. The study was focused on the
effects on synaptic plasticity related molecules in hippocampus, which in turn
may be responsible for underlying behavior alterations.
METHOD: Rats were divided into 2 main groups: one fed with normal rat chow diet
and the other with HFHCD for 6 weeks. Every group was subdivided into three
subgroups, non-treated, low dose Se (200 μg/kg) and high dose Se (400 μg/kg). The
cognitive behaviors of the rats were tested using the Morris Water Maze test.
RESULTS: Daily administration of Se alleviated memory impairment induced by HFHCD
as measured by behavioral tests. It significantly alleviated oxidative stress and
restored protein expression of cyclic AMP response element protein (CREB) and
brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus. Finally, p-Tau was
reduced.
CONCLUSION: Se reversed HFHCD-induced cognitive impairments via elevation of
BDNF, CREB in the hippocampus through MAPK signaling pathway; thus, it can be
considered as a possible beneficial therapeutic approach for prevention and
treatment of HFHCD-associated cognitive deficits, further studies are warranted
in this field.
EOF
Variations in N-acylethanolamines (NAE) levels are associated with obesity and
metabolic comorbidities. Their role in the gut remains unclear. Therefore, we
generated a mouse model of inducible intestinal epithelial cell (IEC)-specific
deletion of N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD), a key
enzyme involved in NAE biosynthesis (Napepld∆IEC). We discovered that Napepld∆IEC
mice are hyperphagic upon first high-fat diet (HFD) exposure, and develop
exacerbated obesity and steatosis. These mice display hypothalamic Pomc neurons
dysfunctions and alterations in intestinal and plasma NAE and 2-acylglycerols.
After long-term HFD, Napepld∆IEC mice present reduced energy expenditure. The
increased steatosis is associated with higher gut and liver lipid absorption.
Napepld∆IEC mice display altered gut microbiota. Akkermansia muciniphila
administration partly counteracts the IEC NAPE-PLD deletion effects. In
conclusion, intestinal NAPE-PLD is a key sensor in nutritional adaptation to fat 
intake, gut-to-brain axis and energy homeostasis and thereby constitutes a novel 
target to tackle obesity and related disorders.
EOF
The IGF2 mRNA binding protein2/IMP2 was selectively deleted from adult mouse
muscle; two phenotypes were observed: decreased accrual of skeletal muscle mass
after weaning and reduced wheel running activity but normal forced treadmill
performance. Reduced wheel running occurs when fed a high fat diet but is
normalized consuming standard chow. The two phenotypes are due to altered
abundance of different IMP2 client mRNAs. The reduced fiber size of IMP2
deficient muscle is attributable, in part, to diminished autocrine Igf2
production; basal tyrosine phosphorylation of the Insulin and IGF1 receptors is
diminished and Akt1 activation is selectively reduced. Gsk3α is disinhibited and 
eIF2Bϵ[lsqb]S536[rsqb] hyperphosphorylated. Protein synthesis is reduced despite 
unaltered MTOR complex1 activity. The diet dependent reduction in voluntary
exercise is likely due to altered muscle metabolism, as contractile function is
normal. IMP2-deficient muscle exhibits reduced fatty acid oxidation, due to
reduced abundance of PPARα mRNA, an IMP2 client, and PPARα protein. IMP2
deficient muscle fibers treated with mitochondrial uncoupler to increase electron
flux, as occurs with exercise, exhibit reduced oxygen consumption from fatty
acids with higher oxygen consumption from glucose. The greater dependence on
muscle glucose metabolism during increased oxygen demand may promote central
fatigue and thereby diminish voluntary activity.
EOF
Hesperidin (HES) is a flavanone glycoside found in citrus peel that contributes
to its bitter taste. It has low water solubility and poor oral bioavailability.
To improve its solubility and bioavailability, α-monoglucosyl HES (αGH) has been 
synthesized from HES by transglucosylation using cyclodextrin glucanotransferase.
Several reports indicate that αGH significantly decreases body fat, but the
underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. We hypothesized that the
anti-obesity effects of αGH occur through the induced formation of brown-like
adipocytes. The present study verified that dietary αGH induces brown-like
adipocytes to form in mouse inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT), thereby
significantly decreasing the weight of WAT. Furthermore, dietary αGH
significantly induced thermogenesis in iWAT. Dietary αGH also significantly
suppressed high-fat-diet-induced WAT accumulation in mice, which may be mediated 
by brown-like adipocyte formation. These results indicate that dietary αGH
induces increased energy expenditure by stimulating the formation of brown-like
adipocytes.
EOF
When administered to rats receiving a high-fat diet (HFD), 3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine
(3,5-T2) [at a dose of 25 μg/100 g body weight (BW)] is known to increase energy 
expenditure and to prevent HFD-induced adiposity. Here, we investigated which
cellular and molecular processes in visceral white adipose tissue (VAT)
contributed to the beneficial effect of 3,5-T2 over time (between 1 day and 4
weeks following administration). 3,5-T2 programmed the adipocyte for lipolysis by
rapidly inducing hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) phosphorylation at the protein
kinase A-responsive site Ser563, accompanied with glycerol release at the 1-week 
time-point, contributing to the partial normalization of adipocyte volume with
respect to control (N) animals. After two weeks, when the adipocyte volumes of
HFD-3,5-T2 rats were completely normalized to those of the controls (N), 3,5-T2
consistently induced HSL phosphorylation at Ser563, indicative of a combined
effect of 3,5-T2-induced adipose lipolysis and increasing non-adipose oxidative
metabolism. VAT proteome analysis after 4 weeks of treatment revealed that 3,5-T2
significantly altered the proteomic profile of HFD rats and produced a marked
pro-angiogenic action. This was associated with a reduced representation of
proteins involved in lipid storage or related to response to oxidative stress,
and a normalization of the levels of those involved in lipogenesis-associated
mitochondrial function. In conclusion, the prevention of VAT mass-gain by 3,5-T2 
occurred through different molecular pathways that, together with the previously 
reported stimulation of resting metabolism and liver fatty acid oxidation, are
associated with an anti adipogenic/lipogenic potential and positively impact on
tissue health.
EOF
Enzyme treatment of the foods and herbs has been used to improve the absorption
rate the efficiency of plant extracts by converting the glycosides of the plant
into aglycones. In this study, we examined the obesity-inhibitory effect of
Chrysanthemum indicum Linné (CI) treated with enzymes such as viscozyme and
tannase, which are highly efficient in converting glycosides to aglycones and
then compared with untreated CI extract. The enzyme-treated CI ethanol extract
(CIVT) was administered orally at various doses for 7 weeks in the high fat diet 
(HFD)-fed male mice. CIVT administration reduced the body weights, the food
efficiency and the serum levels of lipid metabolism-related biomarkers, such as
triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
(LDL-c) and leptin in the dose-dependent manner but not those high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) and adiponectin. CIVT also reduced considerably
the total lipid amount in the liver and the size of adipocytes in the epididymal 
white adipose tissue (eWAT). CIVT effectively downregulated the
adipogenesis-related transcription factors such as peroxisome proliferation
activated receptor (PPAR)-γ and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-α (C/EBP-α) but
up-regulated PPAR-α, in the liver and eWAT. In addition, when compared to the
enzyme-untreated CI 50% ethanol extract (CIEE), CIVT enhanced the reduction of
body weight and lipid accumulation. Moreover, the viscozyme and tannase treatment
of CI increased the flavonoid contents of the aglycone form. Therefore, our
results support that the enzymatic treatment induced the production of aglycones 
for potentially suppressing the adipogenesis and lipid accumulation in HFD-fed
mice. It suggests that CIVT might be an effective candidate for attenuating the
over-weight and its related diseases.
EOF
Obesity is now widely recognized to be associated with low-grade systemic
inflammation. It has been shown that high-fat feeding modulates gut microbiota
which strongly increased intestinal permeability leading to lipopolysaccharide
absorption causing metabolic endotoxemia that triggers inflammation and metabolic
disorders. N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown associated
with anti-obesity properties, but results still remain heterogeneous and very few
studies underlined the metabolic pathways involved. Thus, the use of Fat-1
transgenic mice allows to better understanding whether endogenous n-3 PUFAs
enrichment contributes to obesity and associated metabolic disorders prevention. 
It specially evidence that such effects occur through modulations of gut
microbiota and intestinal permeability. Then, by remodeling gut microbiota,
endogenous n-3 PUFAs improve HF/HS-diet induced features of the metabolic
syndrome which in turn affects host metabolism. Thus, increasing anti-obesogenic 
microbial species in the gut microbiota population (i.e Akkermansia) by
appropriate n-3 PUFAs may represent a promising strategy to control or prevent
metabolic diseases.
EOF
In the current study, serum metabolomics techniques were used to evaluate the
potential mechanism of the effect of chicory polysaccharides in non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) rats. A rat model of NAFLD was constructed according 
to the histopathological data and biochemical parameters, while the underlying
mechanisms of high-fat diet (HFD) induced NAFLD and the therapeutic effects of
chicory polysaccharides (CP) were studied by the adoption of serum metabolomics. 
The serum metabolites were analyzed by GC/MS. Multivariate statistical approaches
such as principal component analysis, revealed significant differences with HFD
model and CP groups against the control. Results indicated that CP plays a
regulatory role in the occurrence of NAFLD. Meantime, a total of 65 candidate
biomarkers were screened and identified. Cluster analysis, enrichment analysis
and metabolic pathway analysis of differential metabolites also indicated that
amino acid metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis in NAFLD rats, the β-oxidation 
and urea cycle of very long-chain fatty acids were mainly disturbed when compared
against the control group. The corresponding metabolic pathways in the CP group
were relieved compared against the NAFLD rats. These results showed that
untargeted metabonomics helps to explain intervention effects of chicory
polysaccharide with the rat model of NAFLD.
EOF
AIMS: Increasing adipose tissue capillarization is beneficial to metabolic
health. The present study examined the effects of continuous training (CT) and
aerobic-interval training (AIT) coinciding with a high-fat diet (HFD) on
capillary density, macrophage polarization in mesenteric (mAT) and subcutaneous
(sAT) adipose tissue.
MAIN METHODS: 48 male Wistar rats were divided into HFD and normal diet (ND)
groups. After 10 weeks, each group was divided into sedentary, CT, and AIT. The
animals in training groups performed 10-week matched distances of CT and AIT on a
motorized treadmill (5 times/week).
KEY FINDINGS: The results showed that HFD significantly reduced the capillary
density of adipose tissue (sAT: 54% vs. mAT:49%) and increased systemic insulin
resistance, mean adipocyte size, crown-like structure (CLs), and M1-macrophages
with no change in the total number of adipocytes in either tissue. Exercise
training reversed the HFD induced adipose tissue dysfunction. Compared to CT, AIT
was more effective on increasing the capillary density of sAT (170 vs. 87%) and
mAT (140 vs. 100%). Likewise, AIT increased the capillary density of both tissues
even in comparison to the ND sedentary group (~25%). Compared with CT as well,
AIT more significantly increased the number of M2 macrophages (181 vs. 122%) and 
decreased CLs (60 vs. 38%) in mAT.
SIGNIFICANCE: The findings suggest that hypertrophy is a major contributor to
adipose tissue expansion in obesity. Furthermore, exercise training largely
demonstrated beneficial effects on adipose tissue remodeling, where AIT is more
effective than CT in reducing HFD-induced adipose tissue dysfunction.
EOF
Defect in one-carbon metabolism is one of the multiple underlying pathological
pathways contributing to NAFLD pathogenesis. Hence, our study was designed to
examine whether different one-carbon donors; betaine, choline, and folic acid
would possess beneficial effects in NAFLD treatment. Rats were fed with high fat 
diet and NAFLD rats were orally treated with different doses of betaine or
choline or folic acid for 28 days. All used one-carbon donors had dose-dependent 
ameliorating effects on NAFLD as they succeeded to reduce body and relative liver
weights, serum lipids and liver enzymes. These were accompanied by decreasing
hepatic fat accumulation and amending hepatic histological structure. They also
improved serum and hepatic redox systems (total glutathione (tGSH), reduced GSH, 
oxidized GSSG, and GSH/GSSG ratio), hepatic S-adenosylmethionine/S-adenosyl
homocysteine (SAM/SAH) ratio and increased hepatic global DNA methylation. There 
were some discrepancies in the dose and the extent of their effect, where folic
acid showed the most prominent effects that could be mediated through the
significant surge in hepatic SAM/SAH ratio and better efficient correction of
one-carbon metabolism than the other donors. Thus, one-carbon donors can be
strongly considered in NAFLD management and might influence the whole therapeutic
approaches of fatty liver diseases.
EOF
Conophylline (CnP), a vinca alkaloid extracted from the leaves of the tropical
plant Tabernaemontana divaricate, attenuates hepatic fibrosis in mice. We have
previously shown that CnP inhibits non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) using a
methionine-choline-deficient (MCD) diet-fed mouse model. However, little is known
about the CnP mediated inhibition of hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet-induced
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) mouse models. CnP (0.5 and 1 μg/g/body 
weight) was co-administered along with a high-fat diet to male BALB/c mice. After
nine weeks of administering the high-fat diet, hepatic steatosis, triglyceride,
and hepatic fat metabolism-related markers were examined. Administration of a
high-fat diet for 9 weeks was found to induce hepatic steatosis. CnP
dose-dependently attenuated the high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis. The diet
also attenuated hepatic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA) 
mRNA levels. PPARA is known to be involved in β-oxidation. CnP upregulated the
mRNA levels of hepatic PPARA and its target genes, such as carnitine palmitoyl
transferase 1 (CPT1) and CPT2, in a dose-dependent manner in the liver.
Furthermore, levels of hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate, which is a type of ketone body,
were increased by CnP in a dose-dependent manner. Finally, CnP increased the
expression of the autophagosomal marker LC3-II and decreased the expression of
p62, which are known to be selectively degraded during autophagy. These results
indicate that CnP inhibits hepatic steatosis through the stimulation of
β-oxidation and autophagy in the liver. Therefore, CnP might prove to be a
suitable therapeutic target for NAFLD.
EOF
Obese-insulin resistance following chronic high-fat diet consumption led to
cognitive decline through several mechanisms. Moreover, sex hormone deprivation, 
including estrogen and testosterone, could be a causative factor in inducing
cognitive decline. However, comparative studies on the effects of
hormone-deprivation on the brain are still lacking. Adult Wistar rats from both
genders were conducted sham operations or orchiectomies/ovariectomies and given a
normal diet or high-fat diet for 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Blood was collected to
determine the metabolic parameters. At the end of the experiments, rats were
decapitated and their brains were collected to determine brain mitochondrial
function, brain oxidative stress, hippocampal plasticity, insulin-induced
long-term depression, dendritic spine density, and cognition. We found that male 
and female rats fed a high-fat diet developed obese-insulin resistance by week 8 
and brain defects via elevated brain oxidative stress, brain mitochondrial
dysfunction, impaired insulin-induced long-term depression, hippocampal
dysplasticity, reduced dendritic spine density, and cognitive decline by week 12.
In normal diet-fed rats, estrogen-deprivation, not testosterone-deprivation,
induced obese-insulin resistance, oxidative stress, brain mitochondrial
dysfunction, impaired insulin-induced long-term depression, hippocampal
dysplasticity, and reduced dendritic spine density. In high-fat-diet-fed rats,
estrogen deprivation, not testosterone-deprivation, accelerated and aggravated
obese-insulin resistance and brain defects at week 8. In conclusion, estrogen
deprivation aggravates brain dysfunction more than testosterone deprivation
through increased oxidative stress, brain mitochondrial dysfunction, impaired
insulin-induced long-term depression, and dendritic spine reduction. These
findings may explain clinical reports which show more severe cognitive decline in
aging females than males with obese-insulin resistance.
EOF
Background: Recently, high-intensity intermittent training (HIIT) appears to have
the same beneficial effects or even superior to those of continuous
moderate-intensity training (CMIT) on body fat mass reduction. Exercise may
induce myokine secretion such as irisin, which plays a role as a mediator of
beiging process, and thus might contribute as treatment of obesity. However, the 
effects of those exercise formulas on irisin level changes as beiging agent are
not known. In addition, metabolic states may affect the irisin responses to those
exercise formulas. Therefore, this study was aimed to determine the different
effects of exercises using HIIT and CMIT on circulating and tissue irisin levels 
in normal and abnormal metabolic conditions (obese).
Methods: Sixteen male Sprague-Dawley rats (8 weeks of age) were randomized to 4
groups according to training regimens (HIIT and CMIT) and metabolic conditions
(normal and abnormal/obese). The groups are (1) HIIT on normal metabolic (n=4),
(2) CMIT on normal metabolic (n=4), (3) HIIT on abnormal metabolic (n=4), and (4)
CMIT on abnormal metabolic (n=4). Abnormal metabolic condition was induced with
high fat diet (19% fat) for 8 weeks in obese rats. Irisin levels in serum,
skeletal muscle, and white adipose tissue were evaluated by ELISA.
Results: Serum irisin levels were shown significantly higher in normal metabolic 
compared to abnormal metabolic condition (P<0.001). The effect of interaction
between metabolic condition and exercise formula was found (P<0.01) on adipose
irisin levels. The effect of HIIT was shown significantly more effective on
adipose irisin levels, compared with CMIT in abnormal metabolic conditions.
However, no significant differences of skeletal muscle irisin levels were found
in both normal and abnormal metabolic subjects (P>0.05). Regarding exercise
formula, no different effects were found between HIIT and CMIT on skeletal muscle
irisin levels in both metabolic conditions (P>0.05). The similar findings were
observed in serum irisin levels (P>0.05).
Conclusions: The exercise effects in abnormal metabolic condition might be more
adaptable in maintaining the irisin levels in skeletal muscle and induce the
irisin uptake from circulation into adipose tissue. In addition, HIIT might be
more involved to induce irisin uptake into adipose tissue; thus it might have the
significant role in beiging process. However, further research about how the HIIT
formula affects the regulation mechanisms of irisin uptake into adipose tissue is
still warranted.
EOF
Worldwide, millions of people are exposed to dietary imbalance that impacts in
health and quality of life. In developing countries, like in Brazil, in poor
settings, dietary habits, traditionally hypoproteic, are changing rapidly to
western-type high-fat foods. These rapidly changing dietary habits are imposing
new challenges to human health and there are many questions in the field that
remain to be answered. Accordingly, we currently do not know if chronic
consumption of hypoproteic (regional basic diet, RBD) or high-fat diets (HFD) may
impact the brain physiology, contributing to blood-brain barrier (BBB)
dysfunction and neuroinflammatory events. To address this issue, mice were
challenged by breastfeeding from dams receiving standard, RBD or HFD from
suckling day 10 until weaning. Immediately after weaning, mice continued under
the same diets until post-natal day 52. Herein, we show that both RBD and HFD
cause not only a peripheral but also a consistent central neuroinflammatory
response, characterized by an increased production of Reactive Oxygen Species
(ROS) and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, BBB hyperpermeability,
accounted by an increase in hippocampal albumin content, a decrease in claudin-5 
protein levels and collagen IV immunostaining, was also observed together with an
upregulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1). Interestingly, we
also identified a significant astrogliosis, manifested by upregulation of GFAP
and S100β levels and an intensification of arbor complexity of these glial cells.
In sum, our data show that dietary imbalance, related with hypoproteic or
high-fat content, impairs BBB properties potentially favoring the transmigration 
of peripheral immune cells and induces both a peripheral and central
neuroinflammatory status. Noteworthy, neuroinflammatory events in the hippocampus
may cause neuronal malfunction leading to cognitive deficits and long-term
persistence of this phenomenon may contribute to age-related neurodegenerative
diseases.
EOF
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) controls energy balance by regulating both
energy intake and energy expenditure. Endocannabinoid levels are elevated in
obesity suggesting a potential causal relationship. This study aimed to elucidate
the rate of dysregulation of the ECS, and the metabolic organs involved, in
diet-induced obesity. Eight groups of age-matched male C57Bl/6J mice were
randomized to receive a chow diet (control) or receive a high fat diet (HFD, 45% 
of calories derived from fat) ranging from 1 day up to 18 weeks before
euthanasia. Plasma levels of the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG)
and anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine, AEA), and related
N-acylethanolamines, were quantified by UPLC-MS/MS and gene expression of
components of the ECS was determined in liver, muscle, white adipose tissue (WAT)
and brown adipose tissue (BAT) during the course of diet-induced obesity
development. HFD feeding gradually increased 2-AG (+132% within 4 weeks, P <
0.05), accompanied by upregulated expression of its synthesizing enzymes Daglα
and β in WAT and BAT. HFD also rapidly increased AEA (+81% within 1 week, P <
0.01), accompanied by increased expression of its synthesizing enzyme Nape-pld,
specifically in BAT. Interestingly, Nape-pld expression in BAT correlated with
plasma AEA levels (R 2 = 0.171, β = 0.276, P < 0.001). We conclude that a HFD
rapidly activates adipose tissue depots to increase the synthesis pathways of
endocannabinoids that may aggravate the development of HFD-induced obesity.
EOF
AIMS: A long-term high-fat/cholesterol (HFC) diet leads to hepatic insulin
resistance (IR), which is associated with autonomic dysfunction and
cardiovascular diseases risk increasing. However, whether this occurs in Tibetan 
minipigs remains unknown. We tested that a long-term HFC diet caused hepatic IR
and promote cardiovascular disorders in Tibetan minipigs, and are associated with
the reduction of cardiovagal tone and baroreflex sensitivity (BRS).
METHODS: Male Tibetan minipigs were fed either a standard diet or a HFC diet, and
were euthanized at 12 weeks. Thereafter, the minipigs were tested for biochemical
blood indices, glucose tolerance, blood pressure, heart rate variability (HRV),
BRS, and insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-associated gene and protein expression 
levels, as well as cardiac function.
RESULTS: HFC-fed minipigs developed IR by increasing body weight, total
cholesterol, fasting blood glucose and insulin levels, and nonesterified fatty
acid (NEFA) and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels, glucose
intolerance. Increased adipose cell size, hepatic fat deposition, malondialdehyde
(MDA) content and NEFA level, down-regulation of IRS1, IRS2, PI3K, Akt, p-Akt,
Glut2 and PGC1ɑ expression concomitant with up-regulation of mTOR, GSK3β, TNF-ɑ, 
FOXO1, p-mTOR and p-p70S6K expression in the liver tissue, as well as
hypertension and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction were observed in HFC-fed 
minipigs. HRV parameters and BRS values were further significantly reduced.
Furthermore, multiple linear regression analysis showed that the development of
hepatic IR toward cardiovascular disease was associated with low HFnu, RMSSD, BRS
and LV -dp/dtmax, high NEFA, high hepatic TG content.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that HFC-fed Tibetan minipigs develop hepatic IR
and promote cardiovascular disorders, and are associated with lower cardiovagal
tone and BRS.
EOF 
signalling.METHODS: Animals were divided into 4 groups as follows: diabetes
(Dia), diabetic-crocin (Dia-Cro), diabetic-voluntary exercise (Dia-Exe),
diabetic-crocin-voluntary exercise (Dia-Cro-Exe). Type 2 diabetes was induced by 
high-fat diet (4 weeks) and injection of streptozotocin (STZ) (i.p., 35 mg/kg).
Animals received crocin orally (50 mg/kg), voluntary exercise was performed alone
or together with crocin for 8 weeks. Akt and ERK1/2 levels were measured by ELISA
and CD31 was detected by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Akt and ERK1/2 levels in crocin and exercise groups were significantly
higher than in diabetic group. Levels of Akt and ERK1/2 proteins and CD31
immunostaining were also significantly higher in crocin-voluntary exercise group 
in comparison to the other groups.
CONCLUSION: Our results revealed that treatments with crocin and voluntary
exercise had synergistic effect on angiogenesis. Protective effects of these
interventions are probably through the activation of Akt and ERK 1/2 signalling
pathways in the heart of diabetic rats (Fig. 3, Ref. 40).
EOF
Moderate dietary protein restriction promotes hyperphagia and thermogenesis;
however, little is known of whether these responses are due to restriction of the
essential amino acids tryptophan and histidine. Here, we determined whether
restriction of tryptophan and histidine alone recapitulate the effects of total
amino acid restriction on energy balance, and whether the metabolic responses are
age-dependent. We fed young (12 weeks old) and older (29 weeks old) diet-induced 
obese rats with one of four high-fat diets: control (CON, 100% amino acid
requirement), total amino acid restriction (TAA, 67% amino acid restriction),
tryptophan restriction (TRP, 67% tryptophan restriction) or histidine restriction
(HIS, 67% histidine restriction) for 21 days. Energy balance, hormones, and key
markers of hepatic nutrient sensing and brown adipose thermogenesis were
measured. We found that TAA increased food intake in both young and older rats,
with TRP, but not HIS, transiently simulating the hyperphagia. TAA promoted
sympathetically mediated increase in energy expenditure in young rats partly
through increased β2-adrenergic and FGF21 signaling in brown fat; TRP partially
emulated these responses. TRP and HIS transiently increased fat mass in young
rats, and TAA promoted adiposity in older rats. TAA,TRP and HIS increased
postprandial FGF21 concentrations in older rats. TAA induced age-dependent
differential changes in markers of hepatic amino acid sensing; TRP and HIS
partially mimicked these responses. Collectively, restriction of tryptophan, but 
not histidine, partially recapitulated the age-dependent metabolic effects of
total amino acid restriction, in concert with distinct changes in hepatic amino
acid sensing and signaling mechanisms.
EOF
The practice of physical exercise is highly indicated to prevent cardiovascular
diseases and is directly related to the improvement of endothelial function and
the regulation of arterial blood pressure. The objective of this study was to
analyze the effect of physical exercise in vascular remodeling after FeCl3
chemically induced arterial injury on atherosclerotic mice. To analyze the effect
of exercises on thrombus formation, LDL receptor-deficient mice were fed for
6 weeks with a high-fat diet and performed or not physical exercises for 2 weeks 
before the arterial injury. To verify endothelium recovery the animals were
exercised or not 2 weeks before the injury, and 3 weeks after it, when the
vessels were analyzed. In this work, we observed that physical exercises done
only before arterial injury reduced thrombosis time, protected the endothelial
layer, promoted the recruitment of CD34 positive progenitor cells, increased the 
level of eNOS and gelatinases activities and decreased the number of inflammatory
cells in the vessel, but do not avoid the growth of neointima. Otherwise
exercises done before and continued after injury, increased gelatinase
activities, reduced lipid deposition in the aortic arch and prevented neointima
formation. Thus, we could conclude that physical exercises are done before and
continued after endothelial injury stimulate endothelial recovery by promoting
endothelial cell growth, matrix remodeling and decreasing inflammation in the
vessel wall.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to examine dietary habits and
adherence to dietary recommendations in adult patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D)
and type 2 diabetes (T2D) compared with the general population in Denmark.
METHODS: The study was cross-sectional and included 426 patients with T1D and 348
patients with T2D recruited from an outpatient diabetes clinic in the capital
region of Denmark. Dietary habits were assessed by a food frequency questionnaire
and compared with dietary data from 2,899 participants without diabetes from the 
Danish National Survey of Dietary Habits and Physical Activity.
RESULTS: Patients with diabetes had a 20-50% lower intake of added sugar and
alcohol, and a 10-20% higher intake of fibre and vegetables compared with the
general population (p<0.001 for all). Patients with T2D had a 37% lower intake of
alcohol compared with T1D (p<0.001). Adherence to dietary recommendations (e.g.
fibre, saturated fat, vegetables, fruit and fish) were low in all groups but
lowest in the general population.
CONCLUSION: The Danish diet is too high in saturated fat and too low in dietary
fibre, vegetable, fruit and fish compared to dietary recommendations in both
patients with diabetes and the general population. However, our data demonstrate 
that patients with diabetes consume a healthier diet compared to the general
population: Limiting the intake of added sugar and alcohol, and increasing the
intake of vegetables and dietary fibre.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a progressive disease, accompanied by
increased insulin resistance and deteriorating β-cell function. Previous studies 
have revealed that microRNA (miRNA) plays a crucial role in the treatment of
T2DM. Hence, we aim to investigate the role of microRNA-125b-5p (miR-125b-5p) in 
pancreatic β-cell function and insulin sensitivity of mice with T2DM with the
involvement of Dishevelled antagonist Dapper1 (DACT1) and the c-Jun NH2-terminal 
kinases (JNK) signaling pathway. Firstly, a mouse model of T2DM was established
by administering a high-fat diet plus low dosage of streptozotocin, and function 
of pancreatic β-cell and insulin sensitivity in the normal and T2DM mice were
detected. Then, the pancreatic β-cells were collected from pancreatic islet
tissues and treated with different mimics, inhibitors and siRNAs. After that, the
relationship among miR-125b-5p, DACT1, and the JNK signaling-related factors in
T2DM mice was determined. Finally, cell proliferation and apoptosis were
determined. Mice with T2DM had lower pancreatic β-cell function and insulin
sensitivity, as well as diminished expression of miR-125b-5p but enhanced
expressions of DACT1, JNK and c-Jun. miR-125b-5p inhibited DACT1 expression and
the activation of the JNK signaling pathway, as well as restrained cell
proliferation and promoted cell apoptosis. The current results suggest that
up-regulated miR-125b-5p promotes insulin sensitivity and enhances pancreatic
β-cell function through inhibiting the JNK signaling pathway by negatively
mediating DACT1.
EOF
PURPOSE: Stress is thought to stimulate unhealthy dietary choices towards fat and
sweet foods. Nevertheless, individual vulnerabilities might exist depending on
psychological factors. We wanted to check dietary change during examination
stress via a longitudinal study, while identifying risk groups via moderation by 
eating behavior (emotional/external/restrained), food choice motive, taste
preference, reward/punishment sensitivity, impulsivity, coping strategies,
sedentary behavior, social support, living in a student home and being a
first-year student.
METHODS: Before and after the examination period January 2017, 232 Flemish
students completed online questionnaires on diet (food frequency questionnaire
with diet quality index), the above mentioned psychological factors, perceived
exam stress and some demographics.
RESULTS: During the examination period, diet quality decreased: lower general
diet quality index, lower fruit and vegetables intake, higher fast food intake
and more difficulties to eat healthy. Based on significant time moderation,
emotional eaters, external eaters, sweet/fat lovers, those with health as food
choice motive, sensitive to reward or punishment, highly sedentary,
non-first-year students and those with high stress reports were at higher risk
for exam-induced diet deteriorations (partial η2: 017-0.071; highest effects for 
health as food choice motive and external eating). Most tested variables were
also related to baseline dietary intake which was of rather low quality.
CONCLUSION: The overall stress-diet hypothesis was confirmed as students were
vulnerable to diet deterioration during examination periods and high-risk groups 
were identified. Prevention strategies should integrate psychological and
lifestyle aspects: stress management, nutritional education with techniques for
self-effectiveness, awareness of eating-without-hunger and a health stimulating
environment.
EOF
A range of studies showed confusing data about the relationship between obesity, 
weight reduction and circulating total insulin-like growth factor -1 (IGF-1). The
aim of the study was to compare the influence of orlistat (IO), metformin (IM),
or calorie-restricted diet (LC) on IGF-1, with special respect to
insulin-resistance status. One hundred and fourteen obese women aged from 18 to
40 years were divided into insulin sensitive (IS) and insulin resistant (IR)
groups and received a low calorie diet (LC), or an isocaloric diet and 500 mg
metformin twice daily (IM), or isocaloric diet with 120 mg orlistat three times
daily (IO). Before and after the intervention anthropometric parameters, serum
lipid profile, serum concentrations of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate
aminotransferase, insulin, glucose, IGF-1, HOMA-IR (homeostatic model
assessment), and visceral adiposity index (VAI), and their changes were
registered. Although the reductions in weight and body fat were comparable in IS 
and IR groups, only women with IR showed a significant increase in IGF-1
concentration as a result of all interventions. We found significant positive
correlations of ΔIGF-1 with initial and Δ values of: HOMA-IR,
triglyceride/high-density cholesterol ratio, VAI. IR premenopausal women show
significant increase in IGF-1 serum concentrations regardless the method of
intervention. The increase in IGF-1 was parallel to the improvement of insulin
resistance parameters.
EOF
Mast cells (MCs) are potent innate immune cells that aggravate atherosclerosis
through the release of proinflammatory mediators inside atherosclerotic plaques. 
Similarly, CD4+ T cells are constituents of the adaptive immune response and
accumulate within the plaques following lipid-specific activation by APCs.
Recently it has been proposed that these two cell types can interact in a direct 
manner. However, no indication of such an interaction has been investigated in
the context of atherosclerosis. In our study, we aimed to examine whether MCs can
act as APCs in atherosclerosis, thereby modulating CD4+ T cell responses. We
observed that MCs increased their MHC class II expression under hyperlipidemic
conditions both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, we showed that MCs can present
Ags in vivo via MHC class II molecules. Serum from high-fat diet-fed mice also
enhanced the expression of the costimulatory molecule CD86 on cultured MCs,
whereas OVA peptide-loaded MCs increased OT-II CD4+ T cell proliferation in
vitro. The aortic CD4+ and TH1 cell content of atherosclerotic mice that lack MCs
was reduced as compared with their wild-type counterparts. Importantly, we
identified MCs that express HLA-DR in advanced human atheromata, indicating that 
these cells are capable of Ag presentation within human atherosclerotic plaques. 
Therefore, in this artice, we show that MCs may directly modulate adaptive
immunity by acting as APCs in atherosclerosis.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Nutrition interventions are a common component of worksite wellness
programs and have been recognized as an effective strategy to change employee
dietary behaviors. However, little is known about worksite food behaviors or the 
foods that are obtained at workplaces at the national level.
OBJECTIVE: The aims were to examine the frequency of and the amount of money
spent obtaining foods at work among employed US adults, to determine the foods
most commonly obtained at work, and to assess the dietary quality of these foods.
DESIGN: This is a cross-sectional analysis of data from the US Department of
Agriculture Food Acquisition and Purchasing Survey, a nationally representative
household survey conducted from April 2012 through January 2013 on food purchases
and acquisitions during a 7-day study period.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included 5,222 employed adult Americans.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The study assessed the prevalence of obtaining any foods
at work overall and according to sociodemographic subgroups, number of
acquisitions and calories obtained, most commonly obtained foods and leading food
sources of calories, and 2010 Healthy Eating Index (HEI) scores that represent
dietary quality.
STATISTICAL ANALYSES PERFORMED: Prevalence estimates of obtaining ≥1 foods at
work were compared according to sociodemographic characteristic using χ2 tests.
RESULTS: Nearly a quarter (23.4%) of working adults obtained foods at work during
the week, and the foods they obtained averaged 1,292 kcal per person per week.
The leading food types obtained included foods typically high in solid fat, added
sugars, or sodium, such as pizza, regular soft drinks, cookies or brownies, cakes
and pies, and candy. HEI scores suggest that work foods are high in empty
calories, sodium, and refined grains and low in whole grains and fruit.
CONCLUSIONS: Working adults commonly obtain foods at work, and the foods they
obtain have limited dietary quality. Future research should examine the role
worksites can play to help ensure access to and promote healthier options.
EOF
Seizures are a feature not only of the many forms of epilepsy, but also of global
metabolic diseases such as mitochondrial encephalomyopathy (ME) and glycolytic
enzymopathy (GE). Modern anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) are successful in many
cases, but some patients are refractory to existing AEDs, which has led to a
surge in interest in clinically managed dietary therapy such as the ketogenic
diet (KD). This high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet causes a cellular switch from
glycolysis to fatty acid oxidation and ketone body generation, with a wide array 
of downstream effects at the genetic, protein, and metabolite level that may
mediate seizure protection. We have recently shown that a Drosophila model of
human ME (ATP61) responds robustly to the KD; here, we have investigated the
mechanistic importance of the major metabolic consequences of the KD in the
context of this bioenergetics disease: ketogenesis, reduction of glycolysis, and 
anaplerosis. We have found that reduction of glycolysis does not confer seizure
protection, but that dietary supplementation with ketone bodies or the
anaplerotic lipid triheptanoin, which directly replenishes the citric acid cycle,
can mimic the success of the ketogenic diet even in the presence of standard
carbohydrate levels. We have also shown that the proper functioning of the citric
acid cycle is crucial to the success of the KD in the context of ME. Furthermore,
our data reveal that multiple seizure models, in addition to ATP61, are treatable
with the ketogenic diet. Importantly, one of these mutants is TPIsugarkill, which
models human glycolytic enzymopathy, an incurable metabolic disorder with severe 
neurological consequences. Overall, these studies reveal widespread success of
the KD in Drosophila, further cementing its status as an excellent model for
studies of KD treatment and mechanism, and reveal key insights into the
therapeutic potential of dietary therapy against neuronal hyperexcitability in
epilepsy and metabolic disease.
EOF
Previous studies have shown that early life intake of high-fat diet or
western-style diet (WD) enhances the development of mammary tumors in adult
female rats. Thus, we hypothesized that maternal WD throughout pregnancy and the 
lactation period could speed up the development of MNU-induced mammary tumors and
alter their gene expression. For this, the present study investigated the gene
expression profile of chemically-induced mammary tumors in female rat offspring
from dams fed a WD or a control diet. Pregnant female Sprague-Dawley rats
received a WD (high-fat, low-fiber and oligoelements) or a control diet from
gestational day 12 until post-natal day (PND) 21. At PND 21, female offspring
received a single dose of N-Methyl-N-Nitrosourea (MNU, 50 mg/kg body weight) and 
were fed a control diet for 13 weeks. Tumor incidence, multiplicity, and latency 
were recorded and mammary gland samples were collected for histopathology and
gene expression analysis. Tumor multiplicity and histological grade were
significantly higher and tumor latency was lower in WD offspring compared to
control offspring. Transcriptome profiling identified 57 differentially expressed
genes in tumors from WD offspring as compared to control offspring. There was
also an increase in mRNA expression of genes such as Emp3, Ccl7, Ets1, Abcc5, and
Cyr61, indicative of more aggressive disease detected in tumors from WD
offspring. Thus, maternal WD diet increased MNU-induced mammary carcinogenesis in
adult female offspring through transcriptome changes that resulted in a more
aggressive disease.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the second major chronic liver
disease world-wide and growing. Current medical treatment of NAFLD is not
effective, and there is an urgent need to find new effective drugs. Liraglutide
is now the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with promise,
according to recent reports, to mitigate the fatty degeneration of the liver. The
investigators of the current study discern if liraglutide reduces non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induced by a high-fat diet using mice via modulating 
Kupffer cells M2 polarization in the liver. The mice underwent four weeks of
intraperitoneal injections of liraglutide (0.6 mg/kg body weight). In the NAFLD
model used in this study, the liver index, the body weight, and the serum levels 
of ALT, AST, total cholesterol, and triglycerides were meaningfully improved. In 
sections using H&E and Oil Red O staining, hepatic steatosis was significantly
improved. Liraglutide decreased liver inflammation and the inflammatory
properties of Kupffer cells in the NAFLD mouse model and there was a higher ratio
of M2/M1 Kupffer cells. In vitro studies found that Liraglutide treatment
modulates Kupffer cells to M2-like activation via the cAMP-PKA-STAT3 signaling
pathway. The perilous effects of a high-fat diet were alleviated by liraglutide, 
including hepatic steatosis, by modulating Kupffer cells M2 polarization via the 
cAMP-PKA-STAT3 signaling pathway. Liraglutide can indeed reverse the negative
effects of NAFLD.
EOF
We investigated extreme changes in diet patterns on the gut microbiota of elite
race walkers undertaking intensified training and its possible links with athlete
performance. Numerous studies with sedentary subjects have shown that diet and/or
exercise can exert strong selective pressures on the gut microbiota. Similar
studies with elite athletes are relatively scant, despite the recognition that
diet is an important contributor to sports performance. In this study, stool
samples were collected from the cohort at the beginning (baseline; BL) and end
(post-treatment; PT) of a three-week intensified training program during which
athletes were assigned to a High Carbohydrate (HCHO), Periodised Carbohydrate
(PCHO) or ketogenic Low Carbohydrate High Fat (LCHF) diet (post treatment).
Microbial community profiles were determined by 16S rRNA gene amplicon
sequencing. The microbiota profiles at BL could be separated into distinct
"enterotypes," with either a Prevotella or Bacteroides dominated enterotype.
While enterotypes were relatively stable and remained evident post treatment, the
LCHF diet resulted in a greater relative abundance of Bacteroides and Dorea and a
reduction of Faecalibacterium. Significant negative correlations were observed
between Bacteroides and fat oxidation and between Dorea and economy test
following LCHF intervention.
EOF
Unacylated ghrelin (UnGhr) exerts several beneficial actions on vascular
function. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of UnGhr on high-fat
induced endothelial dysfunction and its underlying mechanisms. Thoracic aortas
from transgenic mice, which were overexpressing UnGhr and being control fed
either a standard control diet (CD) or a high-fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks, were
harvested and used for the assessment of vascular reactivity, endothelial nitric 
oxide synthase (eNOS) expression and activity, thiobarbituric acid reactive
substances (TBARS) and glutathione levels, and aortic lipid accumulation by Oil
Red O staining. Relaxations due to acetylcholine and to DEA-NONOate were reduced 
(p < 0.05) in the HFD control aortas compared to vessels from the CD animals.
Overexpression of UnGhr prevented HFD-induced vascular dysfunction, while eNOS
expression and activity were similar in all vessels. HFD-induced vascular
oxidative stress was demonstrated by increased (p < 0.05) aortic TBARS and
glutathione in wild type (Wt) mice; however, this was not seen in UnGhr mice.
Moreover, increased (p < 0.05) HFD-induced lipid accumulation in vessels from Wt 
mice was prevented by UnGhr overexpression. In conclusion, chronic UnGhr
overexpression results in improved vascular function and reduced plaque formation
through decreased vascular oxidative stress, without affecting the eNOS pathway. 
This research may provide new insight into the mechanisms underlying the
beneficial effects of UnGhr on the vascular dysfunction associated with obesity
and the metabolic syndrome.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: It is unclear whether the cardioprotective Mediterranean diet
(MedDiet) can be adhered to in non-Mediterranean populations. The aim of this
study was to report preliminary results on adherence to a 6-mo ad libitum MedDiet
intervention in multiethnic Australian patients with coronary heart disease,
including maintenance at 12 mo.
METHODS: Participants (62 ± 9 y of age, 83% men) were randomized to the MedDiet
(n = 34) or a low-fat diet (n = 31). Dietitian-led appointments occurred at 0, 3,
and 6 mo with a follow-up phone review at 12 mo. Dietary intake was assessed via 
7-d food diaries analyzed in FoodWorks8, and MedDiet adherence was measured by a 
validated 14-item questionnaire.
RESULTS: In the pooled cohort, the MedDiet adherence score was low at baseline
(5.2 ± 2.1 of 14), with only 6.2% achieving a high score (≥9). MedDiet
participants significantly improved the MedDiet adherence score compared with
low-fat diet participants after 6 mo (+4.8 ± 2.7 versus +1.2 ± 2 points,
respectively; P < 0.001). MedDiet participants significantly increased intake of 
olive oil, nuts, tomato, yogurt, legumes, and seafood and decreased intake of
processed meats and added sugars compared with low-fat diet participants (P <
0.05). Maintenance of the MedDiet at 12 mo was high with 78% of MedDiet
participants maintaining an adherence score ≥9; however, mean adherence score
decreased by 1 ± 1.9 point (P = 0.01) between 6 and 12 mo.
CONCLUSIONS: The MedDiet intervention in this pilot trial of Australian patients 
with coronary heart disease was well adhered to, improved diet quality, and could
therefore provide a feasible alternative to a low-fat diet. Notably, improvement 
in adherence to the MedDiet was achieved through dietitian-led intervention and
cross-cultural translation of dietary principles.
EOF
Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from Gram negative bacteria are generally present in
laboratory animal chow diets in unknown amounts, which has been correlated to
significant immunological differences between animals receiving diets with either
low or high "naturally" occurring LPS content. LPS in the blood stream has been
linked to glucose intolerance through Toll-like receptor mediated release of
pro-inflammatory cytokines, metabolic endotoxemia, adipose tissue inflammation.
LPS uptake increases when co-administered with fat, therefore uncontrolled LPS
levels in a high-fat diet may increase variation in development of disease when
high-fat diets are used to induce obesity and type 2 diabetes. Three experiments 
were conducted, in which C57BL/6NTac mice received high-fat (60%) or low fat
(10%) diets with or without LPS for 8 or 20 weeks investigating the short and
long term effects. Three different doses of LPS were used to investigate dosage
effect, and ampicillin to isolate the effect of dietary LPS. Dietary LPS
increased LPS levels in the blood stream, and affected the level of glycated
haemoglobin (HbA1c), a key parameter in this model, in a dose dependant manner
(p < 0.05). There was a strong tendency toward slower glucose uptake in the LPS
supplemented groups once obesity was established, but the differences disappeared
after 20 weeks. A high-fat diet slightly increased serum LPS and altered ileal
expression of il10 and tnfa (p < 0.05). In conclusion, LPS seems to affect the
glucose metabolism in a time-dose dependant manner, and uncontrolled variation in
LPS levels of a diet may therefore increase inter-study variation.
EOF
Evidence suggests that hydrogen sulfide precondition (HIPC) is an effective
protocol in the management of ischemia reperfusion (I/R) by attenuating free
radical and calcium overload in mitochondria. However the efficacy of HIPC is
largely unknown in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) hearts subjected to I/R
procedure. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: i) normal,
ii) diabetes mellitus (DM), and iii) diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM). DM and DCM
animals were prepared by using streptozotocin injection at the age of 4 week
(35 mg/kg, i.p). DCM animals were additionally administered with high fat diet
for 3 months. Isolated rat hearts were perfused by using Langendorff apparatus
with continuous hemodynamic monitoring. Following reperfusion, cardiac
physiological efficiency was highly compromised in DCM heart (high infarct size
by 94% and low relative pressure product by 65%) as compared to normal rat heart.
HIPC effectively improved cardiac physiology of I/R challenged normal rat hearts 
by 62.5% (RPP), reduced injury by 60% (Infarct size) and subsequently preserved
mitochondrial electron transport chain enzyme activities NQR by 57%, membrane
potential, swelling behaviour, ATP content, ATP producing capacity and oxidative 
defence system by reducing lipid peroxidation by 55% compared with I/R. But in DM
and DCM animals, isolated hearts conditioned with HIPC substantially improved
cardiac physiology (RPP) by 44% in DM and 58% in DCM, arrest tissue injury
(Infarct size) by 72% in DM and 79% in DCM and preserved mitochondrial activity
only to its own sham control, primarily due to the basal level defect.
Furthermore, we found that SSM fraction of diabetic heart mitochondria showed
overall better improvement in their function than IFM by HIPC. However,
mitochondrion experienced I/R associated oxidative stress was not improved by
HIPC.
EOF
We previously found that senescence of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) T cells
is accelerated in the visceral adipose tissue (VAT) of mice with diet-induced
obesity (DIO) due to a high-fat diet (HFD), and that these senescent-associated T
cells cause chronic inflammation of visceral adipose tissue through secretion of 
osteopontin, provoking systemic insulin resistance. In this study, we examined
whether the development of chronic inflammation and senescence-associated T cells
in VAT of DIO mice was improved by long-term weight loss after switching to
normal chow (NC) or by administration of a sodium glucose cotransporter 2
inhibitor (tofogliflozin). Wild-type mice were fed an HFD for 26 weeks from 4
weeks old. At 30 weeks of age, half of these DIO mice were switched to NC with or
without 0.005% tofogliflozin for 38 weeks. The other mice remained on the HFD
with or without 0.005% tofogliflozin for 38 weeks. When DIO mice were switched to
NC, their weight decreased to that of mice kept on NC since weaning. After 38
weeks (68 weeks of age), chronic inflammation of the VAT subsided with
disappearance of senescence-associated T cells. In the HFD groups, the
carbohydrate intake per mouse was half or less of that in the NC group, and
urinary glucose excretion by the effect of tofogliflozin was lower in the HFD
mice than in the NC mice. Mice that remained on the HFD showed no improvement in 
chronic inflammation in VAT, possibly because urinary glucose excretion was not
sufficiently promoted by tofogliflozin due to the low carbohydrate intake. Thus, 
no improvement in glucose metabolism or weight loss was observed in these mice.
EOF
Obesity is a worldwide public health concern requiring safe and effective
strategies. Recent studies suggest that bioactive compounds from soybeans have
beneficial effects on weight loss and reducing fat accumulation. However, despite
the biochemical and nutritional changes during germination, the biological
effects of germinated soy germ have not been fully investigated. In this article,
germinated soy germ extract (GSGE) was evaluated as a potential treatment option 
for obesity using 3T3-L1 pre-adipocyte and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese
mice. In vitro studies demonstrated that GSGE suppressed the differentiation of
3T3-L1 cells into mature adipocytes, along with reductions in lipid accumulation 
and lipid droplet formation. In vivo studies also showed that a daily dose of 1
mg kg-1 of GSGE reduced weight gain, adipocyte area, serum triglyceride, and
LDL-cholesterol in HFD-fed mice. The GSGE treatment promoted browning, which was 
associated with increased UCP1 expression in vitro and in vivo. In addition, GSGE
treatment induced beige fat activation by upregulation of lipolysis and
beta-oxidation. Furthermore, gene and protein expression levels of
endocannabinoid system-related factors such as NAPE-PLD, FAAH, DAGL-α, and CB2
were altered along with browning and beige fat activation by GSGE. The present
study indicates that GSGE effectively inhibits lipid accumulation and promotes
beige fat transition and activation. Therefore, we suggest that GSGE treatment
could be a promising strategy for the prevention of obesity by promoting weight
loss, reducing fat accumulation, and improving obesity-related metabolic
disorders.
EOF
SCOPE: High-fat diets (HFDs) and adiposity increase colorectal cancer risk, in
part by elevating pro-inflammatory cytokines that activate pro-cancerous
signaling pathways. Curcumin (CUR), a dietary polyphenol and salsalate (SAL), an 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) lacking the gastrotoxicity of
aspirin, each suppress inflammatory signaling, but via different cellular
pathways.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A/J mice (n = 110) are fed a low-fat diet (LFD, 10% kcal), a
HFD (60% kcal), a HFD containing 0.4% CUR, a HFD containing 0.3% SAL, or a HFD
containing both agents (CUR/SAL). All mice receive six injections of
azoxymethane. Compared to LFD-fed mice, HFD-fed mice display elevated colonic
cytokines, crypt cell proliferation, and increased tumorigenesis (p < 0.05).
CUR/SAL significantly reduces colonic cytokines (p < 0.01), suppresses activation
of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR/NF-κB/Wnt pathways (p < 0.01), activates AMPK (p < 0.01),
attenuates abnormal proliferation of the colonic mucosa (p < 0.05), and reduces
tumor multiplicity and burden (p < 0.05), in comparison to the HFD control. In
contrast, CUR or SAL alone does not suppress abnormal crypt cell proliferation or
tumor multiplicity, and is largely ineffective in modifying activation of these
signaling pathways.
CONCLUSION: These observations demonstrate the superiority of the CUR/SAL over
the individual agents and provide a scientific basis for future translational
studies in obese subjects and/or those habitually consuming HFDs.
EOF
SCOPE: Modulation of intestinal microbiota has emerged as a new therapeutic
approach for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Herein, it is addressed
whether gut microbiota modulation by quercetin and intestinal microbiota
transplantation can influence NAFLD development.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Gut microbiota donor mice are selected according to their
response to high-fat diet (HFD) and quercetin in terms of obesity and
NAFLD-related biomarkers. Germ-free recipients displayed metabolic phenotypic
differences derived from interactions between microbiota transplanted, diets, and
quercetin. Based on the evaluation of hallmark characteristics of NAFLD, it is
found that gut microbiota transplantation from the HFD-non-responder donor and
the HFD-fed donor with the highest response to quercetin results in a protective 
phenotype against HFD-induced NAFLD, in a mechanism that involves gut-liver axis 
alteration blockage in these receivers. Gut microbiota from the HFD-responder
donor predisposed transplanted germ-free mice to NAFLD. Divergent protective and 
deleterious metabolic phenotypes exhibited are related to definite microbial
profiles in recipients, highlighting the predominant role of Akkermansia genus in
the protection from obesity-associated NAFLD development.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide scientific support for the prebiotic capacity of
quercetin and the transfer of established metabolic profiles through gut
microbiota transplantation as a protective strategy against the development of
obesity-related NAFLD.
EOF
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is linked to increased cardiovascular risk, 
independent of the broad spectrum of metabolic syndrome risk factors.
Stroke-prone (SP) spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP5/Dmcr) fed a high-fat
and high-cholesterol (HFC) diet developed hepatic lesions similar to those in
human NASH pathology. These rats simultaneously developed lipid deposits in the
mesenteric arteries, cardiac fibrosis, endothelial dysfunction and left ventricle
(LV) diastolic dysfunction. However, the intermediary factors between NASH and
cardiovascular disease are still unknown. We investigated whether NASH aggravates
nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition-induced arteriosclerosis in SHRSP5/Dmcr
rats. Wistar Kyoto and SHRSP5/Dmcr rats were divided into 4 groups of 5 and fed
the stroke-prone (SP) or HFC diets for 8 weeks. To induce NO synthase inhibition,
Nω -nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME) mixed with drinking
water was administered in the final 2 weeks. The NASH+L-NAME group demonstrated
the following characteristics related to arteriosclerosis and myocardial
ischaemia: (a) LV systolic dysfunction with asynergy, (b) replacement fibrosis
caused by the shedding of cardiomyocytes and (c) arterial lipid deposition and
coronary occlusion secondary to endothelial dysfunction. These characteristics
were not observed in the NASH or non-NASH+L-NAME groups. The SHRSP5/Dmcr rat
model demonstrates that NASH significantly aggravates cardiovascular risk.
EOF
Activin E, a member of the TGF-β super family, is a protein dimer of mature
inhibin βE subunits. Recently, it is reported that hepatic activin E may act as a
hepatokine that alter whole body energy/glucose metabolism in human. However,
orthologues of the activin E gene have yet to be identified in lower vertebrates,
including fish. Here, we cloned the medaka (Oryzias latipes) activin E cDNA from 
liver. Among all the mammalian inhibin β subunits, the mature medaka activin E
amino acid sequence shares the highest homology with mammalian activin E.
Recombinant expression studies suggest that medaka activin E, the disulfide-bound
mature form of mature inhibin βE subunits, may exert its effects in a way similar
to that in mammals. Although activin E mRNA is predominantly expressed in liver
in mammals, it is ubiquitously expressed in medaka tissues. Since expression in
the liver was enhanced after a high fat diet, medaka activin E may be associated 
with energy/glucose metabolism, as shown in mice and human.
EOF
PURPOSE: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia
and is associated with an increased risk of stroke. Indeed, silent AF is
frequently identified in unexplained ischemic stroke. 18F-FDG-PET/CT is a
powerful tool for assessing myocardial metabolic shift and inflammation, both
potentially at stake in AF. This case-control study investigated whether AF could
promote FDG uptake in atria after physiological myocardial glucose uptake
suppression, and the potential relationship between FDG atrial uptake and
prevalence of stroke.
METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 128 patients (64 consecutive patients with
AF and 64 without AF as the control group, matched for age and sex) who underwent
18F-FDG-PET/CT after a high-fat low-carbohydrate diet. We analyzed visual and
quantitative FDG uptake parameters of the right and left atria (RA/LA) and the
right and left appendages (RAA/LAA), and selected clinical features including
history of stroke.
RESULTS: Diffuse right atrial uptake was present in a third of patients with AF
and only two patients in the control group. FDG uptake intensity of both atria
was significantly associated with the underlying heart rhythm. The occurrence of 
stroke was strongly associated with detectable atrial uptake in multivariate
analysis, with an odds ratio superior to that of other known risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows a significant correlation between FDG atrial uptake
and AF. While inconsistent, this pattern seems to be associated with an increased
prevalence of cardioembolic stroke.
EOF
Background: The influence of dietary fat on the body fat of patients with
diabetes is not well established. This cross-sectional study aimed to analyze the
association between percentage body fat (PBF) and dietary sources of fat from the
usual diet of patients with type 2 diabetes.
Methods: Outpatients were submitted to PBF evaluation estimated by bioelectrical 
impedance. The patient's usual diet was assessed by a 3-day weighed diet record
(WDR), and compliance was analyzed by comparing the protein intake estimated from
the WDR and that from 24-hr urinary nitrogen output.
Results: A total of 188 patients with type 2 diabetes (aged 62.5 ± 8.8 years; 57%
female, body mass index [BMI] 29.3 ± 3.8 kg/m²) were analyzed and divided into
groups with high and low PBF according to mean PBF (men: 26.6 ± 7.1%; women:
39.8 ± 5.9%). Patients with high PBF consumed an increased proportion of red meat
(52.0% of total meat), processed meat (5.4%), and saturated fat from red meat
(2.1% of energy) compared to low PBF individuals (42.3% [p = 0.036]; 3.0%
[p = 0.010]; 1.5% of energy [p = 0.032], respectively). According to Poisson's
regression, the consumption of red meat (PR = 1.008 [95% CI = 1.002-1.013];
p = 0.006) and the reuse of frying oil (PR = 1.670 [95% CI = 1.240-2.249];
p = 0.001) were associated with higher PBF. In the adjusted analysis, the upper
tertile of processed meat intake was associated with higher PBF (PR = 1.522 [95% 
CI = 1.226-1.891]; p = 0.001) compared to the lower tertile.
Conclusions: The present study suggested that a higher ingestion of dietary
sources of saturated fat was associated with high PBF in patients with type 2
diabetes.
EOF
Scope: To investigate the effects of chromium histidinate (CrHis) and chromium
picolinate (CrPic) complex along with biotin to a high-fat diet (HFD) fed to rats
on the insulin sensitivity and the anti-obesity properties.
Methods: Forty-two Sprague-Dawley male rats were divided into six groups. The
rats were fed either (a): a standard diet (Control) or (b): a HFD or (c): a HFD
with biotin (HFD+B) or (d): a combination of HFD and biotin along with CrPic
(HFD + B + CrPic) or (e): a combination of HFD and biotin along with CrHis
(HFD + B + CrHis) or (f): a combination of HFD and biotin along with CrHis and
CrPic (HFD + B + CrHis + CrPic).
Results: Adding biotin with chromium to HFD improved the glucose, insulin,
HOMA-IR, leptin, lipid profile, with HFD+B+CrHis treatment being the most
effective (p = 0.0001). Serum, liver, and brain tissue Cr concentrations
increased upon Cr supplementations (p = 0.0001). Supplementing CrHis along with
biotin to a HFD (HFD + B + CrHis) provided the greatest levels of GLUT-1, GLUT-3,
PPAR-γ, and IRS-1, but the lowest level of NF-κB in the brain and liver tissues.
Conclusion: Biotin supplementation with chromium complexes, CrHis in particular, 
to a HFD pose to be a potential therapeutic feature for the treatment of insulin 
resistance.
EOF
Tropical Solanum species contains a high level of phenolic acids and flavonoids, 
which were found to inhibit some key enzymes associated with the incidence of
type 2 diabetes in in vitro and in vivo models based on earlier studies. This
study was further designed to compare the nutritional properties, glycemic index,
and hypolipidemic and the antioxidant effects of three species of tropical
eggplant fruit (Solanum kumba, Solanum aethiopicum, and Solanum gilo) diet on
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced nephrotoxicity in male Wistar rats. The animal model
was subjected to high-fat diet prior to interperitional administration of
streptozotocin (35 mg/kg wt); thereafter, the rats were given supplemented
eggplant fruit diet, which lasted for 14 days. Determination of lipid content
[triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), high-density lipoproteins
(HDLs), and total cholesterol (TC)], was assessed, while the liver biomarker
enzymes alanine aminotransferase (ALT) alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and aspartate
aminotransferase (AST), also endogenous enzymes such as superoxide dismutase
(SOD) and catalase (CAT), were determined. Histopathological assessment of
inflammation was carried out on kidney while the blood urea nitrogen (BUN), uric 
acid, and creatinine level on the kidney function were determined. The results
showed that the groups with supplemented eggplant diet had significant (p < 0.05)
reduction in lipid profile, decreased leakages of the liver, and kidney function 
enzymes while there was restoration of depleted endogenous antioxidant enzymes.
The inflammatory cells and fat deposit from the histopathological view were
reduced. However, S. kumba had the best nutritional output.
EOF
The lens has high concentrations of glutathione (GSH) and ascorbic acid (AsA) to 
maintain redox activity and prevent cataract formation, which is the leading
cause of visual impairment worldwide. Metabolic syndrome is reported to be linked
with a higher risk of age-associated cataract. As it was demonstrated previously 
that coffee consumption improved high-fat diet (HFD) -induced metabolic symptoms,
it was hypothesized that coffee intake could delay the onset of obesity
related-cataract; however, the effect of coffee consumption on this type of
cataract remains unknown. Four-week-old male C57BL/6JJms SLC mice were divided
into two groups and were provided ad libitum access to either a control diet
(control groups) or a HFD (HFD groups). The control groups and HFD groups were
further divided into three or four subgroups for each experiment. Coffee intake
markedly reduced the increase in body weight in a roasting-time and
concentration-dependent manner. Coffee consumption also prevented the HFD-induced
decrease in the concentration of GSH and AsA, and treatment with pyrocatechol or 
caffeine also restored the reduction of antioxidant compounds. Plasma cholesterol
and triglycerides were significantly higher in HFD groups; however, coffee brew
or coffee constituent treatment in the HFD-fed mice group prevented elevation of 
these levels. Caffeine is a major coffee component and pyrocatechol is generated 
thought the roasting process. These results revealed that caffeine and
pyrocatechol in coffee brew may be the key constituents responsible for
preventing the reduction of lens GSH and AsA in HFD-fed animals.
EOF
Background: Obesity has become a public health concern worldwide because it is
linked to numerous metabolic disorders, such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension and 
cardiovascular disease. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop new
therapeutic strategies that are efficacious and have minimal side effects in
obesity treatment. This study examined the effect of dietary supplement of Smilax
china L. ethanol extract (SCLE) on high-fat diet (HFD) induced obesity.
Methods: Fifty ICR mice were fed a normal diet, high-fat diet (HFD) or HFD
supplemented with 0.25, 0.5% or 1% SCLE for 8 weeks. Body weight,
intraperitioneal adipose tissue (IPAT) weight, serum biochemical parameters, and 
liver lipids were measured. Activity, mRNA and protein expressions of lipid
metabolism-related enzymes were analyzed.
Results: Over 0.5% SCLE had reduced cholesterol biosynthesis by the activation of
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), which subsequently suppressed the mRNA
expression of both sterol regulatory element binding protein-2 and
3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase. Thus, the plasma and liver cholesterol
concentrations in the HFD-fed mice were decreased. AMPK activation caused by SCLE
also significantly upregulated lipolysis by enhancing adipose triglyceride lipase
and hormone-sensitive lipase activities. This accelerated triglyceride hydrolysis
and fatty acid release. Finally, SCLE increased carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 
and acyl-CoA oxidase activities, which further promoted fatty acid β-oxidation.
Conclusion: SCLE could lead to a decrease in body weight gain and fat mass by
inhibiting the lipid synthesis and promoting lipolysis and β-oxidation in HFD fed
mice. The underlying mechanism is probably associated with regulating AMPK
pathway.
EOF
Cardiac lipotoxicity is involved in the cardiac functional consequences
associated with obesity. Therefore, the aim of this study was to explore whether 
changes in the mitochondrial lipid cardiac profile could reflect differences in
cardiac function and structure in obese and non-obese rats with myocardial
infarction (MI). Whether these changes can also be reflected in a specific plasma
miRNA signature as markers of cardiac damage was also evaluated. Rats were fed
with either standard (3.5% fat) or high fat diet (35% fat) for 6 weeks before the
induction of MI and sacrificed 4 weeks later. MI showed cardiac lipotoxicity
independently of the presence of obesity, although obese and non-obese rats did
not present the same cardiac lipid profile at mitochondrial level. Several
cardiac lipid species in mitochondria, including cardiolipins and triglycerides, 
were associated with myocardial fibrosis, with mitochondrial triglyceride levels 
being independently associated with it; this supports that lipotoxicity can
affect cardiac function. MI down-regulated plasma levels of miRNA 15b-5p and
194-5p in obese and non-obese animals, which were associated with cardiac
function, mitochondrial lipids and myocardial fibrosis, with miRNA 15b-5p levels 
being independently associated with cardiac fibrosis. This could support that
lipotoxicity could affect heart function by modulating plasma miRNAs.
EOF
Obesity is a medical condition that impacts on all levels of society and causes
numerous comorbidities, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. We 
assessed the suitability of targeting enolase, a glycolysis pathway enzyme with
multiple, secondary functions in cells, to treat obesity. Treating adipocytes
with ENOblock, a novel modulator of these secondary 'moonlighting' functions of
enolase, suppressed the adipogenic program and induced mitochondrial uncoupling. 
Obese animals treated with ENOblock showed a reduction in body weight and
increased core body temperature. Metabolic and inflammatory parameters were
improved in the liver, adipose tissue and hippocampus. The mechanism of ENOblock 
was identified as transcriptional repression of master regulators of lipid
homeostasis (Srebp-1a and Srebp-1c), gluconeogenesis (Pck-1) and inflammation
(Tnf-α and Il-6). ENOblock treatment also reduced body weight gain, lowered
cumulative food intake and increased fecal lipid content in mice fed a high fat
diet. Our results support the further drug development of ENOblock as a
therapeutic for obesity and suggest enolase as a new target for this disorder.
EOF
Infusions of murtilla leaves exhibit antioxidant, analgesic, and
anti-inflammatory properties. Several compounds that are structurally similar to 
madecassic acid (MA), a component of murtilla leaf extract (ethyl acetate
extract, EAE), have been shown to inhibit protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B
(PTP1P). The aim of this study was to evaluate if EAE and two compounds
identified in EAE (MA and myricetin [MYR]) could have a beneficial effect on
systemic and vascular insulin sensitivity and endothelial function in a model of 
diet-induced obesity. Experiments were performed in 5-week-old male C57BL6J mice 
fed with a standard (LF) or a very high-fat diet (HF) for 4 weeks and treated
with EAE, MA, MYR, or the vehicle as control (C). EAE significantly inhibited
PTP1B. EAE and MA, but not MYR, significantly improved systemic insulin
sensitivity in HF mice and vascular relaxation to Ach in aorta segments, due to a
significant increase of eNOS phosphorylation and enhanced nitric oxide
availability. EAE, MA, and MYR also accounted for increased relaxant responses to
insulin in HF mice, thus evidencing that the treatments significantly improved
aortic insulin sensitivity. This study shows for the first time that EAE and MA
could constitute interesting candidates for treating insulin resistance and
endothelial dysfunction associated with obesity.
EOF
BACKGROUND: N-acetylneuraminic acid (NANA) is the major form of sialic acid in
mammals, and the plasma NANA level is increased in patients with cardiovascular
diseases. Exogenous supplement of NANA has been demonstrated to reduce
hyperlipidaemia and the formation of atherosclerotic lesions; however, the
underlying mechanisms have not yet been clarified. The aim of this study is to
investigate whether exogenous supplement of NANA improves reverse cholesterol
transprot (RCT) in vivo.
METHODS: Apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet were used to
investigate the effect of NANA on RCT by [3H]-cholesterol-loaded macrophages, and
the underlying mechanism was further investigated by various molecular techniques
using fenofibrate as a positive control.
RESULTS: Our novel results demonstrated that exogenous supplement of NANA
significantly improved [3H]-cholesterol transfer from [3H]-cholesterol-loaded
macrophages to the plasma (an increase of > 42.9%), liver (an increase of 35.8%),
and finally to the feces (an increase of 50.4% from 0 to 24 h) for excretion in
apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet. In addition, NANA up
regulated the protein expression of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) G1 and peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα), but not the protein expression of
ABCA1and scavenger receptor B type 1 in the liver. Therefore, the underlying
mechanism of NANA in improving RCT may be partially due to the elevated protein
levels of PPARα and ABCG1.
CONCLUSION: Exogenous supplement of NANA improves RCT in apolipoprotein
E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet mainly by improving the protein expression
of PPARα and ABCG1. These results are helpful in explaining the lipid-lowering
effect of NANA.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of arnebin-1 on nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) induced by a high-fat diet (HFD).
METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed an HFD for 10 weeks and then treated
with arnebin-1 at a dose of 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day by gavage for a further 12
weeks of a 22-week HFD. Peripheral blood and liver tissues were collected for
biochemical and histopathological examination. The mechanisms of arnebin-1 on
liver fibrosis and insulin resistance (IR) were determined by Western blotting
and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: Arnebin-1 treatment attenuated the increase of total cholesterol,
triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, aspartate aminotransferase
and alanine aminotransferase in serum and lipid accumulation in the livers of
HFD-fed rats. Furthermore, arnebin-1 abrogated HFD-induced liver fibrosis and the
increase of fibrotic biomarkers. The HFD-induced decrease of hepatic
proliferator-activated receptor γ and pro-matrix-metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 levels
and the increase of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) levels were 
reversed after arnebin-1. Arnebin-1 attenuated IR through activating the insulin 
receptor substrate-1/Akt/mTOR signalling pathway.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that arnebin-1 ameliorates NAFLD, in part, by
attenuating hepatic fibrosis and IR, suggesting that arnebin-1 may be a
therapeutic agent for NAFLD treatment.
EOF
BACKGROUND: 12-Lipoxygenase (12-LO) and angiotensin II (Ang II) are involved in
the development of diabetic renal hypertrophy, in which cyclin-kinase inhibitors,
p21 and p27 play pivotal roles. Here, we study the effects of 12-LO and its
interaction with Ang II on glomerular p21 and p27 expression in diabetic
conditions.
METHODS: Models used in the current study include glomerular mesangial cells
(MCs); and glomeruli from (1) type 2 diabetic db/db mice; (2) type 2 diabetic
rats induced by high-fat diet feeding followed by streptozotocin injection; (3)
12-LO knockout (12-LOKO) mice; and (4) normal rats infused with Ang II or
12(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12[S]-HETE, arachidonic acid metabolite of
12-LO).
RESULTS: The protein expression levels of p21 and p27 were increased in high
glucose-stimulated MCs and in glomeruli isolated from db/db mice. In type 2
diabetic rats, cinnamyl-3,4-dihydroxy-α-cynanocinnamate (inhibitor of 12-LO)
attenuated the increases in glomerular p21 and p27 protein expression, while in
normal rats, 12(S)-HETE injection increased glomerular p21 and p27 expression.
12(S)-HETE and Ang II were mutually stimulated in glomeruli. Glomerular p21 and
p27 expression were decreased in 12-LOKO mice compared to levels in control mice,
and Ang II stimulation increased the protein expression of p27 in control but not
12-LOKO mice. Ang II stimulation had no effect on p21 protein expression in
12-LOKO mice.
CONCLUSION: 12-LO is involved in diabetic renal hypertrophy via the induction of 
p21 and p27 protein expression and interacts with Ang II to induce p27
upregulation in diabetes. The current results suggest a potential amplifying loop
in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy.
EOF
The roles of retinoids in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remain unclear
and a better understanding may lead to therapies that prevent or limit NAFLD
progression. We examined the actions of retinoic acid receptor (RAR) agonists-
AM80 for RARα and AC261066 for RARβ2- in a murine model of NAFLD. We fed wild
type C57Bl/6 mice a chow or a 45% high fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks, followed by 4
additional weeks with the HFD+AM80; HFD+AC261066; or HFD. The HFD+AM80 group
showed greater hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance compared to other groups.
Histopathological evaluation of the livers showed the highest degree of
steatosis, triglycerides levels, and inflammation, assessed by F4/80 staining, in
the HFD+AM80-treated compared to the HFD, the HFD+AC261066, and chow-fed mice.
Liver vitamin A (retinol (ROL)) and retinyl palmitate levels were markedly lower 
in all HFD groups compared to chow-fed controls. HFD+AC261066-treated mice showed
higher levels of a key intracellular ROL transporter, retinol-binding protein-1
(RBP1) compared to the HFD and HFD+AM80 groups. In conclusion, these data
demonstrate that the selective RARα agonist AM80 exacerbates HFD-induced NAFLD
and hyperglycemia. These findings should inform future studies examining the
therapeutic potential of RAR agonists in HFD-related disorders.
EOF
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a well-known anti-adipogenic factor that possesses the
capability to regulate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the
mechanism by which CoQ10 acts on NAFLD is still unclear. In this study, the role 
of CoQ10 in the prevention of NAFLD was investigated in vivo and in vitro.
C57BL/6J mice were fed a normal diet, high-fat diet (HFD) or HFD supplemented
with CoQ10 (1800 mg kg-1 HFD) for 24 weeks. HepG2 cells were treated with sodium 
palmitate for investigating the mechanism of action of CoQ10 on NAFLD. The
results showed that CoQ10 alleviated HFD-induced weight gain and NAFLD,
accompanied by an anti-hyperlipidaemia effect, by reducing the serum
triglycerides, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.
Importantly, CoQ10 could downregulate the expression of sterol regulatory
element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), and fatty
acid synthase (FAS), which are related to lipid synthesis, and upregulate the
expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors α (PPARα) and carnitine
palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1) associated with fatty acid oxidation. Similar to
the results from mice, treatment with CoQ10 alleviated sodium palmitate-induced
hepatocyte steatosis via the inhibition of lipogenesis and promotion of fatty
acid oxidation. However, Compound C, as an AMPK inhibitor, could significantly
block the benefits derived from CoQ10 treatment. In conclusion, CoQ10 could serve
as an AMPK activator and regulate the hepatic lipid metabolism to inhibit the
abnormal accumulation of hepatic lipids and prevent NAFLD progression.
EOF
The aim of this study was to explore the differences in nutritional status and
dietary intakes in 12~17 year-old children living in urban (Zagreb) and the rural
(Sinj and Drniš) area of Croatia. A validated food frequency questionnaire was
used to assess dietary intake. For each participant, body weight and body height 
were measured and bioelectrical impedance was used to estimate the body fat
percentage. There was an overall of 310 children included: 105 (33.9%) from urban
area and 205 (66.1%) from rural area; 191 (61.6%) were female with a mean age
14.9 (range 12~17) years. When adjusted for age and gender, there was no
statistically significant difference in body mass index for age Z-scores between 
urban and rural parts (0.23±0.07 vs. 0.30±1.15; P=0.650) or in average daily
energy intake (2,479.2±1,111.2 kcal vs. 2,338.2±920.2 kcal; P=0.702). There was a
statistically significant difference in nutritional status between genders, with 
a higher percentage of boys being overweight or obese compared to girls. When
combined, 'Fast food' and 'Snacks' were major contributors to the total energy
intake for both areas. The mean contribution of 'Fast food' to total energy
intake was significantly higher in the urban area. The prevalence of obesity
among Croatian children is high and unrelated to the urban/rural setting, which
could be partially explained by the high intake of 'Fast food' and 'Snacks'.
EOF
High-fat diets (HFDs) are a risk factor for colorectal cancer. The present study 
investigated whether HFDs increase colon cancer metastasis in BALB/c mice. A
total of 40 BALB/c mice were divided into four groups, including the tumor,
tumor-HFD, HFD and control groups. After 3 weeks, the tumor weights and
metastases were observed. The serum levels of triglyceride, total cholesterol,
lapin, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor were analyzed using ELISA. 
The CD34, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiotensin 2 (ANG2)
protein and mRNA levels in tumor tissues were analyzed with immunohistochemistry 
and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The metastasis frequency
increased in the tumor-HFD group. However, there was no difference in the mean
tumor weight between the tumor-HFD and tumor groups. The serum cholesterol levels
were increased in the tumor-HFD and HFD groups compared with the control group.
The levels of serum IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α were increased in the
tumor-HFD group compared with other groups. The CD34 protein level, and VEGF
protein and mRNA levels were increased in the tumor-HFD group compared with the
tumor group. No difference was identified between the ANG2 protein and mRNA
levels in of the two groups. It was concluded that HFD increased the serum level 
of cholesterol and cytokines, and potentially induced tumor angiogenesis,
promoting transplanted orthotopic colon tumor metastasis in BALB/c mice.

EOF
Background: There are no approved drug treatments for liver fibrosis and
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), an advanced stage of fibrosis which has
rapidly become a major cause of cirrhosis. Therefore, development of
anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic therapies is desired. Mesenchymal stem cell-
(MSC-) based therapy, which has been extensively investigated in regenerative
medicine for various organs, can reportedly achieve therapeutic effect in NASH
via paracrine action. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) encompass a variety of
vesicles released by cells that fulfill functions similar to those of MSCs. We
herein investigated the therapeutic effects of EVs from amnion-derived MSCs
(AMSCs) in rats with NASH and liver fibrosis.
Methods: NASH was induced by a 4-week high-fat diet (HFD), and liver fibrosis was
induced by intraperitoneal injection of 2 mL/kg 50% carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)
twice a week for six weeks. AMSC-EVs were intravenously injected at weeks 3 and 4
in rats with NASH (15 μg/kg) and at week 3 in rats with liver fibrosis
(20 μg/kg). The extent of inflammation and fibrosis was evaluated with
quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and
immunohistochemistry. The effect of AMSC-EVs on inflammatory and fibrogenic
response was investigated in vitro.
Results: AMSC-EVs significantly decreased the number of Kupffer cells (KCs) in
the liver of rats with NASH and the mRNA expression levels of inflammatory
cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor- (Tnf-) α, interleukin- (Il-) 1β and
Il-6, and transforming growth factor- (Tgf-) β. Furthermore, AMSC-EVs
significantly decreased fiber accumulation, KC number, and hepatic stellate cell 
(HSC) activation in rats with liver fibrosis. In vitro, AMSC-EVs significantly
inhibited KC and HSC activation and suppressed the lipopolysaccharide
(LPS)/toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway.
Conclusions: AMSC-EVs ameliorated inflammation and fibrogenesis in a rat model of
NASH and liver fibrosis, potentially by attenuating HSC and KC activation.
AMSC-EV administration should be considered as a new therapeutic strategy for
chronic liver disease.
EOF
Non-resolved persistent macrophage-mediated synovial inflammation is considered
as one of the main drivers of both the establishment and progression of
obesity-associated osteoarthritis (OA). Herein, we used clodronate-loaded
liposomes (CL) to locally deplete macrophages in the synovial joints to examine
the role of macrophages in the progression of obesity-induced OA. Furthermore,
resolvin D1 (RvD1), a unique family of pro-resolving lipid mediator derived from 
the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid, have shown marked potency in changing the
pro-inflammatory behaviour of the macrophages. We sought to determine whether
RvD1 administration ameliorates obesity-induced OA by resolving
macrophage-mediated synovitis. Therapeutic properties of RvD1 and macrophage
depletion (CL) were tested for its ability to slow post-traumatic OA (PTOA) in
obese mice models. PTOA was induced in C57Bl/6 mice fed with high-fat diet (HFD) 
by surgically destabilising the meniscus. Firstly, CL treatment showed beneficial
effects in reducing synovitis and cartilage destruction in obese mice with PTOA. 
In vitro treatment with RvD1 decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory markers in 
CD14+ human macrophages. Furthermore, intra-articular treatment with RvD1
diminishes the progression of OA in the knee joint from mice as follows: (a)
decreases macrophages infiltration in synovium, (b) reduces the number of
pro-inflammatory macrophages in synovium and (c) improves the severity of
synovitis and cartilage degradation. Thus, our results provide new evidence for
the potential targeting of macrophages in the treatment of obesity-induced OA.
EOF
So far, the majority of the previous animal studies have focused on the
preventive effects of resveratrol (RSV) on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) rather than the therapeutic effects. In this study, the therapeutic
effects of RSV on hepatic oxidative stress (OS), inflammation, and lipid
metabolism-related gene expression of obese mice induced by a high-fat diet (HFD)
were investigated. Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a HFD for 8 weeks to induce
obesity-related NAFLD model. And then, NAFLD mice were treated with daily RSV
oral gavage at the dose of 100 mg/kg body weight for an additional 4 weeks.
HFD-induced the elevation of serum total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein
cholesterol, glucose, insulin, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine
aminotransferase levels, and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, 
hepatic histology changes, the increases in hepatic triglyceride, malondialdehyde
and tumor necrosis factor alpha concentrations, as well as the higher mRNA
expression of hepatic toll-like receptor 4 and cluster of differentiation 36 in
mice, were restored by RSV. The therapeutic effects of RSV against hepatic
steatosis of HFD obese mice were attributed to the reduction of OS, inflammation 
and free fatty acid uptake.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a very common indication for liver
transplantation. How fat-rich diets promote progression from fatty liver to more 
damaging inflammatory and fibrotic stages is poorly understood. Here, we show
that disrupting phosphorylation at Ser196 (S196A) in the liver X receptor alpha
(LXRα, NR1H3) retards NAFLD progression in mice on a high-fat-high-cholesterol
diet. Mechanistically, this is explained by key histone acetylation (H3K27) and
transcriptional changes in pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory genes. Furthermore, 
S196A-LXRα expression reveals the regulation of novel diet-specific
LXRα-responsive genes, including the induction of Ces1f, implicated in the
breakdown of hepatic lipids. This involves induced H3K27 acetylation and altered 
LXR and TBLR1 cofactor occupancy at the Ces1f gene in S196A fatty livers.
Overall, impaired Ser196-LXRα phosphorylation acts as a novel nutritional
molecular sensor that profoundly alters the hepatic H3K27 acetylome and
transcriptome during NAFLD progression placing LXRα phosphorylation as an
alternative anti-inflammatory or anti-fibrotic therapeutic target.
EOF
This study aimed to examine the antidiabetic effects of various concentrations of
adlay bran oil (ABO) in high fat diet and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
Dietary supplementation with 10% ABO for 4 weeks effectively decreased the blood 
triacylglycerol, glucose, and total cholesterol levels in diabetic rats, although
body weight remained the same. The mRNA and protein expressions of hepatic
glucose transporter 2 (GLUT-2) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) were
increased and that of glucokinase (GCK) were decreased in diabetic rats. However,
10% ABO treatment reduced the mRNA and protein expressions of GLUT-2 and PEPCK
and elevated the expression of hepatic GCK in diabetic rats. Thus, ABO enhanced
hepatic glucose metabolism to decrease blood glucose in diabetic rats. In
addition, 10% ABO supplementation increased the expression of phosphorylated
protein kinase B (Akt) relative to the total Akt levels in the muscles of
diabetic rats, indicating enhanced insulin sensitivity. The results indicate that
ABO displays a potential for improving hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia in
diabetes by enhancing insulin sensitivity and hepatic glucose metabolism.
EOF
In high-fat diet (HFD) induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), there is
an increase in the endocannabinoid system activity, which significantly
contributes to steatosis development. The aim of our study was to investigate the
effects of cannabinoid receptor type 1 blockade on adipokine and proinflammatory 
cytokine content in adipose and hepatic tissue in mice with NAFLD. Male mice
C57BL/6 were divided into a control group fed with a control diet for 20 weeks
(C, n = 6) a group fed with a HFD for 20 weeks (HF, n = 6), a group fed with a
control diet and treated with rimonabant after 18 weeks (R, n = 9), and a group
fed with HFD and treated with rimonabant after 18 weeks (HFR, n = 10). Rimonabant
significantly decreased leptin, resistin, apelin, visfatin, interleukin 6 (IL-6),
and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) concentration in subcutaneous and visceral adipose
tissue in the HFR group compared to the HF group (p < 0.01). Rimonabant reduced
hepatic IL-6 and IFN-γ concentration as well as plasma glucose and insulin
concentration and the homeostatic model assessment index in the HFR group
compared to the HF group (p < 0.01). It can be concluded that the potential
usefulness of CB1 blockade in the treatment of HFD-induced NAFLD is due to
modulation of the adipokine profile and proinflammatory cytokines in both adipose
tissues and liver as well as glucose metabolism.
EOF
Suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) is a negative regulator of leptin
signaling. We previously showed that the chronic effects of leptin on blood
pressure (BP) and glucose regulation are mediated by stimulation of
pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons. In this study, we examined the importance of
endogenous SOCS3 in POMC neurons in control of metabolic and cardiovascular
function and potential sex differences. Male and female SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre
mice in which SOCS3 was selectively deleted in POMC neurons and control
SOCS3flox/flox mice were studied during a control diet (CD) or high fat diet
(HFD) and during chronic leptin infusion. On CD, male and female
SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre mice were lighter in body weight despite similar food
intake compared to control mice. Male SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre mice exhibited
increased energy expenditure. BP and heart rate were similar in male and female
SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre and control mice on CD. On a HFD, male and female
SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre mice showed attenuated weight gain. Female
SOCS3flox/flox/POMC-Cre mice exhibited greater HFD-induced elevations in baseline
BP and BP responses to air jet stress test compared to control mice. Chronic
leptin infusion produced similar responses in all groups for food intake, body
weight, oxygen consumption, blood glucose, BP and heart rate. Thus, SOCS3
deficiency in POMC neurons influences body weight regulation in CD and HFD and
differentially affects BP and energy balance in a sex specific manner, but does
not amplify the dietary, glycemic or cardiovascular effects of leptin.
EOF
The anti-obesity effects of fermented Castanea crenata inner shell extract (FCCE)
were investigated using high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice. In the FCCE
intake groups, body weight gain and adipocyte area were significantly reduced,
especially body weight gain in the 250 mg/kg FCCE group (G4) decreased by 37%,
respectively, compared with negative control group (G2, HFD group). After oral
administration of the FCCE, the increase of serum low-density lipoprotein
(LDL)-cholesterol induced by HFD was suppressed significantly, as well as the
level of aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase, which are
markers of hepatitis induced by obesity. Serum leptin in G4 group was
significantly decreased to less than that of G2 group. Also, in G4 and 500 mg/kg 
FCCE group (G5), enzymes-related lipogenesis, citrate synthase, and ATP citrate
lyase were decreased, whereas the level of enoyl-CoA hydratase used for
β-oxidation was significantly increased in comparison with normal diet group.
Furthermore, the FCCE stimulated the expression of lipolytic regulators,
especially AMP-activated protein kinase. In conclusion, we suggest that the FCCE 
may ameliorate in diet-induced obesity by regulating lipid metabolism.
EOF
Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) levels may affect inflammatory
responses and lipid metabolism. Gut microbiota diversity is strongly associated
with chronic inflammatory disease, diabetes mellitus (DM), and obesity through
abnormal energy homeostasis. In this study, the association between metabolic
responses and gut microbiota diversity at different dietary n-6/n-3 PUFA ratios
was evaluated in DM rats. Obesity and DM were induced in rats by using a high-fat
diet and streptozotocin (STZ), respectively. The obese DM rats were assigned to
three groups and administered regular (R), high (H), and low (L) n-6/n-3 ratio
diets (n-6/n-3 = 6.39, 3.02, and 9.29, respectively) for 6 weeks. Some metabolic 
parameters and gut microbiota of the rats were analysed. The results revealed
that a high linoleic acid diet increased the plasma and kidney interleukin 6
levels, whereas a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet ameliorated blood glucose homeostasis,
reduced plasma tumour necrosis factor α levels, and inhibited systematic
inflammation. DM rats exhibited low gut microbiota diversity; however, compared
with the R group, the L and H groups did not exhibit alterations in the
α-diversity (Observed, Chao 1, Shannon and Simpson). The percentage of Firmicutes
was lower in the DM groups than in the non-DM group; however, the L group showed 
a nonsignificantly higher Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio than did the other
groups. Thus, a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet can improve blood glucose homeostasis,
reduce systematic inflammation, ameliorate glomerular basal membrane thickening, 
reduce the expression of receptors of advanced glycation end products in renal
vessel walls, and prevent diabetic nephropathies.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To observe the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Neiguan" (PC 6),
"Guanyuan" (CV 4) and "Zusanli" (ST 36) on CYP7A1 expression in liver of rabbits 
with atherosclerosis (AS), and to explore the mechanism of acupuncture for
prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis.
METHODS: A total of 26 male rabbits were adaptively fed for 1 week in different
cages. Seven rabbits were randomly divided into a blank group, and the remaining 
19 rabbits were divided into a model group. The blank group was fed with normal
diet, while the model group was fed with high-fat diet. After high-fat diet for 4
weeks, the rabbits in the model group were treated with balloon injury surgery of
the common carotid artery; after surgery, the rabbits were fed with high-fat diet
for 4 weeks. One rabbit was randomly selected from the blank group and model
group to obtain the pathological section of carotid artery; the HE staining was
used to observe the pathomorphology of atheromatous plaque to determine the
success of modeling or not. After successful establishment of modeling, 18
rabbits were randomly divided into a AS model group, an EA group and a medication
group, 6 rabbits in each one. The rabbits in the AS model group received no
treatment; the rabbits in the medication group were treated with intragastric
administration of atorvastatin calcium tablets; the rabbits in the EA group were 
treated with EA at "Neiguan" (PC 6), "Guanyuan" (CV 4) and "Zusanli" (ST 36),
once a day, 20 min per treatment; six-day EA treatment constituted one course,
and totally 4 courses were given with an interval of 1 day between courses. After
treatment, vein blood was collected from rabbit ear, and cholesterol (CHO),
triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein
(HDL) were measured in each group; the CYP7A1 protein expression in rabbit liver 
was measured by Western blot method, and CYP7A1 mRNA expression in rabbit liver
was measured by RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Compared with the blank group, the contents of CHO, TG and LDL in the AS
model group were significantly increased, but HDL was significantly decreased,
and the expression of CYP7A1 protein and CYP7A1 mRNA in the liver were
significantly decreased (all P<0.01). After treatment, compared with the model
group, the contents of CHO, TG and LDL in the EA group and medication group were 
significantly reduced, but HDL was significantly increased, and the expression of
CYP7A1 protein and CYP7A1 mRNA in the liver were significantly increased (all
P<0.01). The significant difference of each outcome between the EA group and
medication group was not observed (all P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: EA could significantly improve blood lipid and promote the expression
of CYP7A1 mRNA in rabbits with atherosclerotic, which may be one of the
mechanisms of EA for atherosclerosis.
EOF
Background: Accumulative evidence showed that gut microbiota was important in
regulating the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Hugan
Qingzhi tablet (HQT), a lipid-lowering and anti-inflammatory medicinal formula,
has been used to prevent and treat NAFLD. However, its mechanism of action is
unknown. The aim of this study was to confirm whether HQT reversed the gut
microbiota dysbiosis in NAFLD rats.
Methods: We established an NAFLD model of rats fed with a high-fat diet (HFD),
which was given different interventions, and measured the level of liver
biochemical indices and inflammatory factors. Liver tissues were stained with
hematoxylin-eosin and oil red O. Changes in the gut microbiota composition were
analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing.
Results: The hepatic histology and biochemical data displayed that HQT exhibited 
protective effects on HFD-induced rats. Moreover, HQT also reduced the abundance 
of the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio in HFD-fed rats and modified the gut
microbial species at the genus level, increasing the abundances of gut microbiota
which were reported to have an effect on relieving NAFLD, such as
Ruminococcaceae, Bacteroidales_S24-7_group, Bifidobacteria, Alistipes, and
Anaeroplasma, and significantly inhibiting the relative abundance of
Enterobacteriaceae, Streptococcus, Holdemanella, Allobaculum, and Blautia, which 
were reported to be potentially related to NAFLD. Spearman's correlation analysis
found that [Ruminococcus]_gauvreauii_group, Lachnoclostridium, Blautia,
Allobaculum, and Holdemanella exhibited significant (p < 0.001) positive
correlations with triglyceride, cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol,
interleukin-6, interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, and body weight and
negative correlations with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p < 0.001). The 
norank_f__Bacteroidales_S24-7_group and Alistipes showed an opposite trend.
Moreover, the HQT could promote flavonoid biosynthesis compared with the HFD
group.
Conclusion: In summary, the HQT has potential applications in the prevention and 
treatment of NAFLD, which may be closely related to its modulatory effect on the 
gut microbiota.
EOF
Gut microbiota play an important role in modulating energy contribution,
metabolism, and inflammation, and disruption of the microbiome population is
closely associated with chronic metabolic diseases, such as nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease (NAFLD). Gegen Qinlian decoction (GGQLD), a well-known traditional 
Chinese herbal medicine (CHM), was previously found to regulate lipid metabolism 
and attenuate inflammation during NAFLD pathogenesis. However, the underlying
mechanism of this process, as well as how the gut microbiome is involved, remains
largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the effect of varying doses of
GGQLD on the total amount and distribution of gut bacteria in rats fed a high-fat
diet (HFD) for 8 weeks. Our analysis indicates that Oscillibacter and
Ruminococcaceae_g_unclassified are the dominant families in the HFD group.
Further, HFD-dependent differences at the phylum, class, and genus levels appear 
to lead to dysbiosis, characterized by an increase in the
Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio and a dramatic increase in the Oscillibacter genus
compared to the control group. Treatment with GGQLD, especially the GGQLL dose,
improved these HFD-induced changes in intestinal flora, leading to increased
levels of Firmicutes, Clostridia, Lactobacillus, bacilli, and Erysipelotrichales 
that were similar to the controls. Taken together, our data highlight the
efficacy of GGQLD in treating NAFLD and support its clinical use as a treatment
for NAFLD/NASH patients.
EOF
A few clues about correlation between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and
mulberry (Morus alba) leaves were investigated in only the experimental
autoimmune myocarditis and streptozotocin-induced diabetes. To investigate
whether a novel extract of mulberry leaves fermented with Cordyceps militaris
(EMfC) could suppress ER in fatty liver, alterations in the key parameters for ER
stress response were measured in high fat diet (HFD)-induced obese C57L/6 mice
treated with EMfC for 12 weeks. The area of adipocytes in the liver section were 
significantly decreased in the HFD+EMfC treated group as compared to the
HFD+Vehicle treated group, while their level was higher in HFD+Vehicle treated
group than No treated group. The level of the eukaryotic initiation factor 2
alpha (eIF2α) and inositol-requiring enzyme 1 beta (IRE1α) phosphorylation and
CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP) expression were
remarkably enhanced in the HFD+Vehicle treated group. However, their levels were 
restored in the HFD+EMfC treated group, although some differences were detected
in the decrease rate. Similar recovery was observed on the ER stress-induced
apoptosis. The level of Caspase-3, Bcl-2 and Bax were decreased in the HFD+EMfC
and HFD+orlistat (OT) treated group compared to the HFD+Vehicle treated group.
The results of the present study therefore provide first evidence that EMfC with 
the anti-obesity effects can be suppressed ER stress and ER stress-induced
apoptosis in the hepatic steatosis of HFD-induced obesity model.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome and diabetes impact brain function and metabolism. While it is
well established that rodents exposed to diets rich in saturated fat develop
brain dysfunction, contrasting results abound in the literature, likely as result
of exposure to different high-fat diet (HFD) compositions and for varied periods 
of time. In the present study, we investigated alterations of
hippocampal-dependent spatial memory by measuring Y-maze spontaneous alternation,
metabolic profiles of the hippocampus, cortex and hypothalamus by 1H magnetic
resonance spectroscopy (MRS), and levels of proteins specific to synaptic and
glial compartments in mice exposed for 6 months to different amounts of fat (10, 
45, or 60% of total energy intake). Increasing the dietary amount of fat from 10 
to 45% or 60% resulted in obesity accompanied by increased leptin, fasting blood 
glucose and insulin, and reduced glucose tolerance. In comparison to controls
(10%-fat), only mice fed the 60%-fat diet showed increased fed glycemia, as well 
as plasma corticosterone that has a major impact on brain function. HFD-induced
metabolic profile modifications measured by 1H MRS were observed across the three
brain areas in mice exposed to 60%- but not 45%-fat diet, while both HFD groups
displayed impaired hippocampal-dependent memory. HFD also affected systems
involved in neuro- or gliotransmission in the hippocampus. Namely, relative to
controls, 60%-fat-fed mice showed reduced SNAP-25, PSD-95 and syntaxin-4
immunoreactivity, while 45%-fat-fed mice showed reduced gephyrin and syntaxin-4
immunoreactivity. For both HFD levels, reductions of the vesicular glutamate
transporter vGlut1 and levels of the vesicular GABA transporter were observed in 
the hippocampus and hypothalamus, relative to controls. Immunoreactivity against 
GFAP and/or Iba-1 in the hypothalamus was higher in mice exposed to HFD than
controls, suggesting occurrence of gliosis. We conclude that different levels of 
dietary fat result in distinct neurochemical alterations in the brain.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Maternal obesity together with androgen excess in mice
negatively affects placental function and maternal and fetal liver function as
demonstrated by increased triglyceride content with dysfunctional expression of
enzymes and transcription factors involved in de novo lipogenesis and fat
storage. To identify changes in molecular pathways that might promote diseases in
adulthood, we performed a global proteomic analysis using a
liquid-chromatography/mass-spectrometry system to investigate total and
phosphorylated proteins in the placenta and fetal liver in a mouse model that
combines maternal obesity with maternal androgen excess.
METHODS: After ten weeks on a control diet (CD) or high fat/high sugar-diet, dams
were mated with males fed the CD. Between gestational day (GD) 16.5 and GD 18.5, 
mice were injected with vehicle or dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and sacrificed at GD
18.5 prior to dissection of the placentas and fetal livers. Four pools of female 
placentas and fetal livers were subjected to a global proteomic analysis. Total
and phosphorylated proteins were filtered by ANOVA q < 0.05, and this was
followed by two-way ANOVA to determine the effect of maternal obesity and/or
androgen exposure.
RESULTS: In placenta, phosphorylated ATP-citrate synthase was decreased due to
maternal obesity, and phosphorylated catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) was
differentially expressed due to the interaction between maternal diet and DHT
exposure. In fetal liver, five total proteins and 48 proteins phosphorylated in
one or more sites, were differentially expressed due to maternal obesity or
androgen excess. In fetal liver, phosphorylated COMT expression was higher in
fetus exposed to maternal obesity.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest a common regulatory mechanism of catecholamine 
metabolism in the placenta and the fetal liver as demonstrated by higher
phosphorylated COMT expression in the placenta and fetal liver from animals
exposed to diet-induced maternal obesity and lower expression of phosphorylated
COMT in animals exposed to maternal androgen excess.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Obesity has become a worldwide epidemic affecting millions of people.
Obesity and associated health consequences tend to be complicated by diverse
causes and multi-systemic involvement. Previous studies have investigated obesity
induced by a single factor, such as a high-fat diet (HF) of typical energy-dense 
food and infection by an adipogenic virus, such as a widely studied human
adenovirus serotype 36 (Ad-36). In this study, we hypothesized and investigated
the synergistic effect of two causal factors, HF and Ad-36, in obesity induction.
METHODS: The 7-week-old Wistar rats (n = 1214/group) were randomly divided into
weight-matched groups and induced for obesity with mock-control, HF, Ad-36, or
HF + Ad-36 for 8-30 weeks, and compared for obesity phenotype. A global
transcriptomic RNA-Seq analysis was used to profile signature gene response
pathways in ileal tissues from 8-week control and obese animals during this early
phase of obesity induction.
RESULTS: HF only and particularly co-administration of Ad-36 and HF (HF + Ad-36) 
induced significant obesity in rats (p < 0.05 or p < 0.005). Compared with either
Ad-36 or HF alone, HF + Ad-36 treatment significantly aggravates obesity in rats 
regarding body weight (n = 12-14/group) and adiposity index (n = 6-7).
Genome-wide transcriptomic analyses of intestinal tissues revealed signature
genes on an inter-systemic scale, including many genes in the pathways of
circadian rhythm and antiviral immunity focusing on IFN signaling.
CONCLUSIONS: Ad-36 exacerbated the induction of obesity in rats compared with
those treated with HF alone. Gene-responsive pathways involved in circadian
rhythm and antiviral immunity in ileal tissues were significantly (p < 0.05, and 
FDR < 0.01) regulated during the early phase of obesity induction. This study
provided a co-factorial model for obesity induction and profiled molecular
targets for further validation and molecular manipulation.
EOF
We have previously shown that high fat diet (HFD) for 2 weeks increases airway
hyperresponsiveness (AHR) to methacholine challenge in C57BL/6J mice in
association with an increase in IL-1β levels in lung tissue. We hypothesize that 
obesity increases AHR via the IL-1β mechanism, which can be prevented by caloric 
restriction and IL-1β blockade. In this study, we fed C57BL/6J mice for 8 weeks
with several hypercaloric diets, including HFD, HFD supplemented with fructose,
high trans-fat diet (HTFD) supplemented with fructose, either ad libitum or
restricting their food intake to match body weight to the mice on a chow diet
(CD). We also assessed the effect of the IL-1β receptor blocker anakinra. All
mice showed the same total respiratory resistance at baseline. All obese mice
showed higher AHR at 30 mg/ml of methacholine compared to CD and food restricted 
groups, regardless of the diet. Obese mice showed significant increases in lung
IL-1 β mRNA expression, but not the protein, compared to CD and food restricted
mice. Anakinra abolished an increase in AHR. We conclude that obesity leads to
the airway hyperresponsiveness preventable by caloric restriction and IL-1β
blockade.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Insulin action in the brain controls metabolism and brain function,
which is linked to proper mitochondrial function. Conversely, brain insulin
resistance associates with mitochondrial stress and metabolic and
neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we aimed to decipher the impact
of hypothalamic insulin action on mitochondrial stress responses, function and
metabolism.
METHODS: To investigate the crosstalk of insulin action and mitochondrial stress 
responses (MSR), namely the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRmt) and
integrated stress response (ISR), qPCR, western blotting, and mitochondrial
activity assays were performed. These methods were used to analyze the
hypothalamic cell line CLU183 treated with insulin in the presence or absence of 
the insulin receptor as well as in mice fed a high fat diet (HFD) for three days 
and STZ-treated mice without or with insulin therapy. Intranasal insulin
treatment was used to investigate the effect of acute brain insulin action on
metabolism and mitochondrial stress responses.
RESULTS: Acute HFD feeding reduces hypothalamic mitochondrial stress responsive
gene expression of Atf4, Chop, Hsp60, Hsp10, ClpP, and Lonp1 in C57BL/6N mice. We
show that insulin via ERK activation increases the expression of MSR genes
in vitro as well as in the hypothalamus of streptozotocin-treated mice. This
regulation propagates mitochondrial function by controlling mitochondrial
proteostasis and prevents excessive autophagy under serum deprivation. Finally,
short-term intranasal insulin treatment activates MSR gene expression in the
hypothalamus of HFD-fed C57BL/6N mice and reduces food intake and body weight
development.
CONCLUSIONS: We define hypothalamic insulin action as a novel master regulator of
MSR, ensuring proper mitochondrial function by controlling mitochondrial
proteostasis and regulating metabolism.
EOF
The present study was conducted to evaluate the effect of two new formulas of
dietary buffers on intake, total tract digestibility, rumen pH, blood
metabolites, and milk production of mid-lactation dairy cows. Nine multiparous
cows (594 ± 46 kg BW; mean ± SD) averaging 120 ± 28 days in milk and producing
46.6 ± 3.4 kg/d were randomly assigned to a triplicate 3 × 3 Latin square. During
each 21-d period, cows were offered one of three total mixed rations that varied 
in dietary buffer. The three types of dietary buffer were 1) 11.2 g/kg of dietary
dry matter (DM) sodium bicarbonate (SB; control), 2) 8.7 g/kg of dietary DM high 
buffering capacity formula contained Na (HBNa), and 3) 7.4 g/kg of dietary DM
high buffering capacity formula contained K (HBK). Each period was comprised of
14 d of dietary adaptation followed by 7 d of sampling. Measured buffering
capacity was 102, 150 and 137 percent of NaHCO3 for SB, HBNa and HBK,
respectively. The amount of Na and K were 270 and 0, 310 and 0, and 250 and
60 g/kg for SB, HBNa, and HBK, respectively. Dry matter intake (DMI) tended
(P = 0.06) to be lower with HBK (20.6 kg/d) than SB (21.0 kg/d) and HBNa (21.2
kg/d). No treatment effects were observed on rumen pH (averaged 5.88) and DM
digestibility in the total digestive tract (averaged 79.4%). Yields of actual
milk (38.1 kg/d) and 3.5% fat corrected milk (31.6 kg/d) were not affected by
treatments, whereas yields of solid corrected milk (P = 0.07) and milk fat
(P = 0.10) tended to be greater with HBK than SB and HBNa. Milk fat concentration
in cows fed HBK was greater than in cows fed other treatments (32.5 vs. 29.5 and 
29.6 g/kg; P = 0.04). Concentration of milk protein (32.2 vs. 30.6 g/kg) and
lactose (46.8 vs. 44.4 g/kg) also were greater in cows fed HBK than those fed SB 
(P = 0.02). Efficiency of milk production was greater in cows fed HBK than SB
(1.86 vs. 1.80; P = 0.01), whereas efficiency of solid corrected milk production 
was greater in HBK than SB and HBNa (1.64 vs. 1.51 and 151; P = 0.02). Blood
concentration of Ca was higher with HBK compared with SB and HBNa (10.4 vs. 9.7
and 9.9 mg/dL, respectively; P = 0.01). These results indicated that under the
current experimental condition, supplementation of dairy cow diet with a high
buffering capacity buffer containing 60 g/kg K decreased DMI and improved milk
composition and milk efficiency of mid-lactation dairy cows.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Excessive gestational weight gain (GWG), which is associated with
adverse long-term effects on the health of the offspring, has become a major
clinical problem. Accumulating evidence indicates that the ovary kisspeptin/GPR54
system directly participates in a series of physiological activities. We used a
model of high-fat diet (HFD) during gestational to investigate offspring's
ovarian function and whether kisspeptin/GPR54 system is involved.
METHODS: After introducing the male and confirmation of mating by checking a
vaginal sperm plug, female rats were randomized into two groups: control diet
called NCD group and high-fat diet called HFD group. After birth, all rats were
changed into a control diet and litter size was adjusted to 12 pups per litter.
Ovaries were collected for assessment at postnatal day (PND) 4 and PND 30. The
timing of vaginal opening was recorded, and the estrous cyclicity was monitored
for 2 consecutive weeks immediately. Primary granulosa cells and ovaries which
were taken from PND 4 were collected for determination of the direct effect of
kisspeptin-10 (kp-10) in vitro.
RESULTS: Neonatal rats exposed to HFD during gestation had a lower number of
secondary follicles in the ovary. The expression of follicle-stimulating hormone 
receptor (FSHR) and kisspeptin was not altered. At prepuberty, the number of
antral follicles and preovulatory follicles was elevated with decreased type III 
follicles in the HFD group. While the expression of ovulation-related genes was
decreased, the expression levels of follicular growth-related genes and
steroidogenesis synthesis related genes were elevated. A significant increase in 
kiss1 mRNA and kisspeptin protein was detected without changes in kiss1r mRNA and
GPR54. Maternal high-fat diet during gestation resulted in a significant advanced
puberty onset and an irregular estrous cycle in offspring rats. In addition, the 
administration of kp-10 produced an increase in viability of primary granulosa
cells and enlarged the size of oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: HFD exposure during maternal gestation had a long-term effect on
reproductive function in the offspring and the increased ovarian kisspeptin/GPR54
system might be involved.
EOF
Objective: To study the mechanism of interleukin (IL)-17 in mice with
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease for promoting M1-type macrophage polarization
to exacerbate liver inflammation, and to provide references for the mechanism of 
NAFLD occurrence and development. Methods: A mouse model of NAFLD was constructed
by high-fat diet. Mice were divided into control group, model group, IL-17 group,
and anti IL-17 group. Histopathological changes of the liver were observed by HE 
staining. The serum levels of ALT and AST in peripheral blood of mice was
detected by chemical colorimetry. Macrophages labeled with F4/80-PE, CD11C-FITC
was designated as M1-type macrophages, those labeled with F4/80-PE, and CD206-APC
was designated as M2-type macrophages. The proportion of M1 and M2 macrophages
infiltrated into the liver tissues of mice were measured by flow cytometry. CD168
expression level of liver tissues was detected using immunohistochemistry.
Protein and mRNA levels of the marker molecules (iNOS, TNF-alpha and IL-6) of M1 
macrophages were detected using ELISA and RT-Q PCR. Western blot was used to
detect the protein expression of JAK-STAT signal pathway and the expression level
of MCP-1. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA and t-test. Results: High-fat
diet NAFLD mice model was successfully constructed. IL-17 had increased the
proportion of M1 macrophages in mice liver tissues and decreased the proportion
of M2 macrophages (P < 0.05). The proportion of M1 and M2 macrophages in the
liver tissues of normal mice was 7.9% ± 1.1% and 19.2% ± 1.8%. The proportion of 
M1 and M2 macrophages in the model group was 17.3% ± 2.5% and 15.0% ± 2.1. The
proportion of M1 macrophages (33.8% ± 4.2%) in IL-17 group was higher than model 
group, while the proportion of M2 macrophages (7.8% + 1.0%) in IL-17 group was
lower than model group. Protein and mRNA marker levels of M1 macrophage (iNOS,
IL-12, TNFα and IL-6) in liver tissues were significantly higher than model
group, control group, and anti-IL-17 group (P < 0.05). The expression levels of
JAK1, STAT1, MCP-1, and CD168 in mice liver tissues of IL-17 group had increased 
(P < 0.05). The levels of aspartate and alanine aminotransferases in peripheral
blood of mice in IL-17 group were significantly higher than other three groups (P
< 0.05). Conclusion: IL-17 can promote M1-type macrophage polarization, and
exacerbates the liver inflammatory response to accelerate the progression of
NAFLD in mice.

EOF
Sucrose overfeeding increases intrahepatocellular (IHCL) and intramyocellular
(IMCL) lipid concentrations in healthy subjects. We hypothesized that these
effects would be modulated by diet protein/fat content. Twelve healthy men and
women were studied on two occasions in a randomized, cross-over trial. On each
occasion, they received a 3-day 12% protein weight maintenance diet (WM) followed
by a 6-day hypercaloric high sucrose diet (150% energy requirements). On one
occasion the hypercaloric diet contained 5% protein and 25% fat (low protein-high
fat, LP-HF), on the other occasion it contained 20% protein and 10% fat (high
protein-low fat, HP-LF). IHCL and IMCL concentrations (magnetic resonance
spectroscopy) and energy expenditure (indirect calorimetry) were measured after
WM, and again after HP-LF/LP-HF. IHCL increased from 25.0 ± 3.6 after WM to 147.1
± 26.9 mmol/kg wet weight (ww) after LP-HF and from 30.3 ± 7.7 to 57.8 ± 14.8
after HP-LF (two-way ANOVA with interaction: p < 0.001 overfeeding x protein/fat 
content). IMCL increased from 7.1 ± 0.6 to 8.8 ± 0.7 mmol/kg ww after LP-HF and
from 6.2 ± 0.6 to 6.9 ± 0.6 after HP-LF, (p < 0.002). These results indicate that
liver and muscle fat deposition is enhanced when sucrose overfeeding is
associated with a low protein, high fat diet compared to a high protein, low fat 
diet.
EOF
We determined whether the anti-obesity effect provided by the consumption of
Euglena gracilis (Euglena), which is rich in insoluble dietary fiber, could be
enhanced by the co-consumption of vegetables with an abundance of soluble dietary
fiber. Nine-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were divided into five groups as follows:
group 1 received a normal diet, group 2 received a high-fat diet, and groups 3,
4, and 5 received high fat diets containing 0.3% paramylon, 1.0% Euglena, or 1.0%
Euglena plus 0.3% vegetables (barley leaf, kale, and ashitaba), respectively.
Mice were fed ad libitum until 18 weeks of age. Euglena intake significantly
reduced visceral fat accumulation in obese mice, and co-consumption of vegetables
enhanced this effect. Consumption of Euglena with vegetables reduced adipocyte
area, suppressed the expression of genes related to fatty acid synthesis,
upregulated genes related to adipocyte lipolysis, and suppressed serum markers of
inflammation. Notably, we also observed an increase in the fraction of
short-chain fatty acid-producing beneficial bacteria, a reduction in harmful
bacteria that cause inflammation, and an increase in short-chain fatty acid
production. Therefore, the co-consumption of vegetables enhanced the anti-obesity
and anti-inflammatory effects of Euglena, likely by modulating the gut microbiota
composition.
EOF
The pathogenesis of prediabetes is associated with risk factors such as chronic
consumption of an unhealthy diet. Recent studies have reported that diet-induced 
pre-diabetes is also associated with risk factors of cardiovascular
complications, hence this study was aimed at evaluating the effects of oleanolic 
acid (OA) on pre-diabetes rats. Pre-diabetes was induced by chronic exposure of
Sprague Dawley rats (SD) to high-fat high-carbohydrate diet (20 weeks), whereas
the non-pre-diabetes control (NC) was given standard rat chow. Pre-diabetes
animals were grouped into five groups namely prediabetes control (PC), metformin 
treated (Met), metformin with diet intervention (Met + DI), oleanolic acid
treated (OA), and oleanolic acid with diet intervention (OA + DI) then treated
for 12 weeks. At the end of treatment, all animals were sacrificed where organs
and tissues were harvested for biochemical analysis and histological studies. The
results showed that PC had a significantly higher triglycerides (TGs), low
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C, interleukin-6(IL-6), tumor necrosis
factor alpha (TNFα), C-reactive protein (CRP), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and
hearts weights in comparison to NC (p < 0.05). However, the administration of OA,
in both the presence and absence of dietary intervention showed a significant
decrease in TGs, LDL-C, IL-6, TNFα, CRP, MAP, hearts weights (p < 0.05). In
conclusion, the administration of OA was able to lower the risks of developing
CVDs in pre-diabetes rat model through ameliorating dyslipidaemia, oxidative
stress, hypertension, and low-grade inflammation. Therefore OA has the potential 
to be used as an alternative treatment to prevent the onset of CVDs during
pre-diabetes stage even in the absence of dietary and lifestyle intervention.
EOF
This study took a multi-analytical approach including group differences,
correlations and unit-weighed directional z-score comparisons to identify the key
mediators of bone health. A total of 190 participants (18⁻80 years) were
categorized by body fat%, body mass index (BMI) and fat mass index (FMI) to
examine the effect of differing obesity criteria on bone characteristics. A
subset of 50 healthy-eating middle-to-older aged adults (44⁻80 years) was
randomly selected to examine any added impact of lifestyle and inflammatory
profiles. Diet was assessed using a 3-day food diary, bone mineral density (BMD) 
and content (BMC) by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry in the lumbar, thoracic,
(upper and lower) appendicular and pelvic areas. Physical activity was assessed
using the Baecke questionnaire, and endocrine profiling was assessed using
multiplex luminometry. Obesity, classed via BMI, positively affected 20 out of 22
BMC- and BMD-related outcome measures, whereas FMI was associated with 14 outcome
measures and adiposity only modulated nine out of 22 BMC- and BMD-related outcome
measures. Whilst bivariate correlations only linked vitamin A and relative
protein intake with BMD, the Z-score composite summary presented a significantly 
different overall dietary quality between healthy and osteopenic individuals. In 
addition, bivariate correlations from the subset revealed daily energy intake,
sport-based physical activity and BMI positive mediators of seven out of 10 BMD
sites with age and body fat% shown to be negative mediators of bone
characteristics. In conclusion, whilst BMI is a good indicator of bone
characteristics, high body fat% should also be the focus of osteoporosis risk
with ageing. Interestingly, high BMI in conjunction with moderate to vigorous
activity supplemented with an optimal diet (quality and quantity) are identified 
as positive modulators of bone heath.
EOF
Atherosclerosis is the pathological process in arteries due to the plaque
formation that is responsible for several diseases like heart disease, stroke and
peripheral arterial disease. In this study, we performed in vitro and in vivo
assays to evaluate the potential anti-atherosclerosis activity of peach kernel
oil. For the in vitro assay, we incubated human umbilical vein endothelial cells 
(HUVEC) with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) to induce tissue factors (TF, an
essential mediator of hemostasis and trigger of thrombosis) elevation. We found
that TNF-α-induced TF elevation was suppressed by peach kernel oil in a
dose-dependent manner at both mRNA and protein levels. Peach kernel oil can
significantly improve HUVEC viability, protect the endothelial cells, which
achieved the goal of prevention of thrombotic diseases. For the in vivo assay, we
investigated the effect and mechanism of peach kernel oil on preventing
atherosclerotic lesion formation in ApoE knockout mice. Results show that peach
kernel oil could reduce total cholesterol, triglyceride, low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol levels, elevate the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level in
serum, and reduce the area of the aortic atherosclerotic lesions in high-fat diet
fed ApoE knockout mice. Moreover, peach kernel oil treatment can significantly
down regulate the expression of TF protein to inhibit the formation of
atherosclerotic plaque. In conclusion, peach kernel oil may be a potential health
food to prevent atherosclerosis in cardiovascular diseases.
EOF
Background: increasing numbers of older adults are living with frailty and its
adverse consequences. We investigated relationships between diet quality or
patterns and incident physical frailty in older British men and whether any
associations were influenced by inflammation.
Methods: prospective study of 945 men from the British Regional Heart Study aged 
70-92 years with no prevalent frailty. Incident frailty was assessed by
questionnaire after 3 years of follow-up. Frailty was defined as having at least 
three of: low grip strength, low physical activity, slow walking speed,
unintentional weight loss and feeling of low energy, all based on self-report.
The Healthy Diet Indicator (HDI) based on WHO dietary guidelines and the Elderly 
Dietary Index (EDI) based on a Mediterranean-style dietary intake were computed
from questionnaire data and three dietary patterns were identified using
principal components analysis: prudent, high fat/low fibre and high sugar.
Results: men in the highest EDI category and those who followed a prudent diet
were less likely to become frail [top vs bottom category odds ratio (OR) (95% CI)
0.49 (0.30, 0.82) and 0.53 (0.30, 0.92) respectively] after adjustment for
potential confounders including BMI and prevalent cardiovascular disease. No
significant association was seen for the HDI. By contrast those who had a high
fat low fibre diet pattern were more likely to become frail [OR (95% CI) 2.54
(1.46, 4.40)]. These associations were not mediated by C-reactive protein (marker
of inflammation).
Conclusions: the findings suggest adherence to a Mediterranean-style diet is
associated with reduced risk of developing frailty in older people.
EOF
BACKGROUND: We previously showed that
3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl-(3R)-hydroxybutanolide (kinsenoside), a major compound of 
Anoectochilus formosanus, increased lipolysis through an AMP-activated protein
kinase (AMPK)-dependent pathway.
PURPOSE: To extend our previous finding, we investigated the in vivo and in vitro
effects of kinsenoside on lipolysis and the involvement of cyclic AMP
(cAMP)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and AMPK in kinsenoside-mediated
lipolysis.
STUDY DESIGN/METHODS: Mice were fed a high-fat diet for six weeks to induce lipid
deposition and then treated with 50 and 100  mg/kg kinsenoside for two weeks. The
coordination of PKA and AMPK activation in lipolysis in C3H10T1/2 adipocytes was 
evaluated in vitro by using PKA and AMPK's corresponding inhibitors, oil-red O
staining, a glycerol production assay, and Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Kinsenoside reduced body weight, fat pad mass, and hepatic lipid
accumulation in obese mice, and concurrently increased the induction and
activation of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), perilipin, adipose triglyceride
lipase (ATGL), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (CPT1). Kinsenoside
concentration-dependently increased PKA activation by increasing the
phosphorylation of Ser/Thr-PKA substrates in vitro. These increases were
accompanied by a reduction in fat accumulation. Using H89 and Rp-8-Br-cAMPs to
inhibit PKA reduced the release of glycerol but did not alter the activation of
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha or the expression of CPT1 or
ATGL. By contrast, compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, inhibited CPT1 and ATGL
expression in kinsenoside-treated C3H10T1/2 adipocytes. In addition, H89 caused
the reactivation of AMPK downstream targets by increasing the levels of the
active form of pAMPK-Thr172, suggesting that PKA negatively modulates AMPK
activity.
CONCLUSION: Kinsenoside increased HSL activation through PKA-mediated
phosphorylation at Ser660/563 and concomitantly increased perilipin activation in
lipolysis. These lipolytic effects of kinsenoside were validated using
6-Bnz-cAMPs, a PKA agonist. In this study, we demonstrated that in addition to
AMPK, PKA also plays a crucial role in kinsenoside-mediated lipolysis.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is closely related to
metabolic diseases such as obesity and insulin resistance.
PURPOSE: We studied whether an ethanol extract of Lycopus lucidus Turcz. ex Benth
(LLE) exhibited effects on lipid metabolism in NAFLD.
STUDY DESIGN: An in vitro modelwas established by treatment of HepG2 cells with a
1 mM free fatty acid (FFA) mixture (oleic acid/palmitic acid, 2:1). C57BL/6 mice 
were fed a high-fat diet (HFD; 60 kcal% fat) for 14 weeks to induce obesity and
were treated with or without LLE (100 or 200  mg/kg daily by oral gavage).
METHODS: HepG2 cells were exposed to 1 mM FFA, with or without LLE (250
- 1000  mg/ml). Intracellular lipid contents were measured by Oil Red O staining 
and a Nile Red assay. The body weight, relative liver weight, hepatic lipids,
triglycerides (TGs), and total cholesterol (TC) were measured in the mice. Serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT), TG, TC, glucose, insulin, leptin, and tumor
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were determined by biochemical or
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Histologic analysis was performed in the
liver. Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were
used to analyze the expression of key enzymes of hepatic lipid metabolism.
RESULTS: LLE significantly decreased the intracellular lipid accumulation in
FFA-treated HepG2 cells. LLE not only remarkably decreased the expression of
lipogenesis genes but also increased β-oxidation in FFA-induced HepG2 cells. In
the in vivo study, LLE treatment significantly decreased the body weight,
relative liver weight, serum ALT, TC, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, as
well as the serum glucose, insulin, leptin, and TNF-α levels in HFD-fed mice. The
hepatic TG and TC contents were significantly reduced in the LLE-treated groups. 
Western blot analysis showed that the expression of sterol-regulatory
element-binding protein 1 decreased, while that of phosphorylated AMP-activated
protein kinase and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α increased in the 
LLE-treated mice.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that LLE may exert protective effects against
NAFLD-related obesity and metabolic disease.
EOF
BACKGROUD: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently evolving as the
most common liver disease worldwide. Dyslipidemia, pathoglycemia and insulin
resistance are the major risk factors for the development of NAFLD. To date, no
effective drug therapies for this condition have been approved.
PURPOSE: The present study was to investigate the protective effects of yangonin,
a kavalactone isolated from Kava, against NAFLD and further elucidate the
mechanisms in vivo and in vitro.
STUDY DESIGN: A high-fat diet (HFD) induced mouse NAFLD model was used with or
without yangonin treatment.
METHODS: The body weight, relative liver weight and serum biochemical indicators 
were measured. H&E and Oil Red O staining were used to identify the amelioration 
of the liver histopathological changes. Serum and hepatic triglyceride, free
fatty acids and total cholesterol were analyzed. siRNA, quantitative real-time
PCR and Western blot assay were used to clarify the mechanisms underlying
yangonin protection.
RESULTS: Yangonin had obvious protective effects against NAFLD via farnesoid X
receptor (FXR) activation. Through FXR activation, yangonin attenuated lipid
accumulation in the liver via inhibition of hepatic lipogenesis-related protein
including sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c), fatty acid
synthetase (FAS), acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1
(SCD1). Besides, yangonin promoted lipid metabolism through an induction in genes
required for lipoprotein lipolysis and fatty acid β-oxidation. Furthermore,
yangonin modulated blood glucose homeostasis through regulation of
gluconeogenesis-related gene phosphoenol pyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and
glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase), and glycogen synthesis-related gene glycogen
synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDase). Also, yangonin
increased insulin sensitivity through upregulating phosphorylation of insulin
responsive substrate 1, 2 (IRS-1 and IRS-2). Then, in vivo and in vitro evidence 
further demonstrated the involvement of FXR activation in yangonin
hepatoprotection.
CONCLUSIONS: Yangonin protects against NAFLD due to its activation of FXR
signalling to inhibit hepatic lipogenesis and gluconeogenesis, and to promote
lipid metabolism and glycogen synthesis, as well as insulin sensitivity.
EOF
Importance: Pediatric guidelines for the management of nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) recommend a healthy diet as treatment. Reduction of sugary foods 
and beverages is a plausible but unproven treatment.
Objective: To determine the effects of a diet low in free sugars (those sugars
added to foods and beverages and occurring naturally in fruit juices) in
adolescent boys with NAFLD.
Design, Setting, and Participants: An open-label, 8-week randomized clinical
trial of adolescent boys aged 11 to 16 years with histologically diagnosed NAFLD 
and evidence of active disease (hepatic steatosis >10% and alanine
aminotransferase level ≥45 U/L) randomized 1:1 to an intervention diet group or
usual diet group at 2 US academic clinical research centers from August 2015 to
July 2017; final date of follow-up was September 2017.
Interventions: The intervention diet consisted of individualized menu planning
and provision of study meals for the entire household to restrict free sugar
intake to less than 3% of daily calories for 8 weeks. Twice-weekly telephone
calls assessed diet adherence. Usual diet participants consumed their regular
diet.
Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was change in hepatic steatosis
estimated by magnetic resonance imaging proton density fat fraction measurement
between baseline and 8 weeks. The minimal clinically important difference was
assumed to be 4%. There were 12 secondary outcomes, including change in alanine
aminotransferase level and diet adherence.
Results: Forty adolescent boys were randomly assigned to either the intervention 
diet group or the usual diet group (20 per group; mean [SD] age, 13.0 [1.9]
years; most were Hispanic [95%]) and all completed the trial. The mean decrease
in hepatic steatosis from baseline to week 8 was significantly greater for the
intervention diet group (25% to 17%) vs the usual diet group (21% to 20%) and the
adjusted week 8 mean difference was -6.23% (95% CI, -9.45% to -3.02%; P < .001). 
Of the 12 prespecified secondary outcomes, 7 were null and 5 were statistically
significant including alanine aminotransferase level and diet adherence. The
geometric mean decrease in alanine aminotransferase level from baseline to 8
weeks was significantly greater for the intervention diet group (103 U/L to 61
U/L) vs the usual diet group (82 U/L to 75 U/L) and the adjusted ratio of the
geometric means at week 8 was 0.65 U/L (95% CI, 0.53 to 0.81 U/L; P < .001).
Adherence to the diet was high in the intervention diet group (18 of 20 reported 
intake of <3% of calories from free sugar during the intervention). There were no
adverse events related to participation in the study.
Conclusions and Relevance: In this study of adolescent boys with NAFLD, 8 weeks
of provision of a diet low in free sugar content compared with usual diet
resulted in significant improvement in hepatic steatosis. However, these findings
should be considered preliminary and further research is required to assess
long-term and clinical outcomes.
Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02513121.
EOF
Evidence indicates that wood pulp-derived sterols (WS) have beneficial effects on
cardiovascular diseases. The present study aimed to (i) investigate the serum
cholesterol-lowering activity of dietary WS and (ii) investigate the effects of
dietary WS on the balance of gut microbiota in hamsters fed with a high-fat diet.
Thirty-six hamsters were divided into four groups fed on a normal chow diet
(NCD), a high-fat diet (HFD), or HFD plus 0.1% or 0.5% wood pulp-derived sterols 
(WSL, WSH), respectively, for 6 weeks. Levels of serum total cholesterol,
triglyceride, HDL-C, non-HDL-C, and non-HDL-C/HDL-C ratio in hamsters fed the NCD
were originally 120.4 mg dL-1, 235.8 mg dL-1, 71.7 mg dL-1, 48.7 mg dL-1 and 0.68
mg dL-1, which were elevated by being fed the HFD to 187.7 mg dL-1, 389.5 mg
dL-1, 92.3 mg dL-1, 95.3 mg dL-1 and 1.03 mg dL-1, and alleviated completely by
being fed the WSH. The excretion of total fecal neutral sterols was
dose-dependently increased with the amounts of dietary WS. Furthermore, dietary
supplementation with WS modulated the relative abundance of gut microbiota
compared with the HFD group. Spearman's correlation analysis revealed that
Bacteroides, Allobaculum, Coprobacillus, Lactobacillus, Akkermansia, Coprococcus,
and Oscillospira were correlated negatively with most of the serum metabolic
parameters and cholesterol metabolic parameters, whereas Desulfovibrio was
positively correlated with most of the lipid metabolism-associated parameters.
Taken together, dietary supplementation with WS was found to have
cholesterol-lowering activity, in part mediated by modulating the gut microbiota 
in a positive way and regulating the cholesterol absorption and
metabolism-related genes.
EOF
SCOPE: The prevalence of obesity and related disorders has vastly increased
throughout the world and prevention of such circumstances thus represents a major
challenge. Here, it has been shown that one protein-bound β-glucan (PBG) from the
edible mushroom Coriolus versicolor can be a potent anti-obesity component.
METHODS AND RESULTS: PBG can reduce obesity and metabolic inflammation in mice
fed with a high-fat diet (HFD). Gut microbiota analysis reveals that PBG markedly
increases the abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila, although it does not rescue
HFD-induced change in the Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes ratio. It appears that PBG 
alters host physiology and creates an intestinal microenvironment favorable for
A. muciniphila colonization. Fecal transplants from PBG-treated animals in part
reduce obesity in recipient HFD-fed mice. Further, PBG is shown to upregulate
expression of a set of genes related to host metabolism in microbiota-depleted
mice.
CONCLUSION: The data highlight that PBG may exert its anti-obesity effects
through a mirobiota-dependent (richness of specific microbiota) and -independent 
(modulation of host metabolism) manner. The fact that C. versicolor PBGs are
approved oral immune boosters in cancers and chronic hepatitis with
well-established safety profiles may accelerate PBG as a novel use for obesity
treatment.
EOF
Dietary carbohydrates form the major source of energy in Asian diets. The
carbohydrate quantity and quality play a vital function in the prevention and
management of diabetes. High glycaemic index foods elicit higher glycaemic and
insulinaemic responses and promote insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes (T2D)
through beta-cell exhaustion. This article reviews the evidence associating
dietary carbohydrates to the prevalence and incidence of T2D and metabolic
syndrome (MS) in control of diabetes and their role in the complications of
diabetes. Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies show that higher carbohydrate 
diets are linked to higher prevalence and incidence of T2D. However, the
association seems to be stronger in Asian-Indians consuming diets high in
carbohydrates and more marked on a background of obesity. There is also evidence 
for high carbohydrate diets and risk for MS and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
However, the quality of carbohydrates is also equally important. Complex
carbohydrates such as brown rice, whole wheat bread, legumes, pulses and green
leafy vegetables are good carbs. Conversely, highly polished rice or refined
wheat, sugar, glucose, highly processed foods such as cookies and pastries, fruit
juice and sweetened beverages and fried potatoes or French fries are obviously
'bad' carbs. Ultimately, it is all a matter of balance and moderation in diet.
For Indians who currently consume about 65-75 per cent of calories from
carbohydrates, reducing this to 50-55 per cent and adding enough protein (20-25%)
especially from vegetable sources and the rest from fat (20-30%) by including
monounsaturated fats (e.g. groundnut or mustard oil, nuts and seeds) along with a
plenty of green leafy vegetables, would be the best diet prescription for the
prevention and management of non-communicable diseases such as T2D and CVD.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is gradually becoming one of the most
frequent causes of liver diseases. The aim of this study was to establish a mouse
model of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease induced by high fat diet, which could
be used for studying the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Forty male C57BL/6J mice were
randomly divided into normal and high-fat model groups. Compared with the normal 
group, after 5 weeks of high-fat diet, the model group showed significantly
elevated serum TG, TC, fasting glucose, transaminase, hepatic TG, TC and TNF-α
levels (P less than 0.05). In contrast, hepatic adiponectin content was
significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) in the model group compared to the
normal group. The morphological alterations determined by HE and Sudan III
further showed diffuse hepatic steatosis and massive inflammatory cell
infiltration in the model group. Immunohistochemistry staining further revealed
significantly elevated CYP2E1 and TGF-β1 expression and markedly decreased
catalase and adiponectin expression in the model group compared to the control
group (P less than 0.05). This study confirmed that high-fat diet significantly
increased liver CYP2E1 and TGF-β1 expressions and decreased adiponectin and
catalase expressions in NAFLD mouse model.
EOF
This study aimed to explore the protective effect of Lycium barbarum
polysaccharides (LBPs) against hyperlipidemia and lipid-induced renal injury in a
rat model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=30) were randomly divided into three equal
groups: a control group (fed a regular diet) and two experimental groups (fed a
high-fat diet). By feeding rats a high-fat diet for 12 weeks, an animal model of 
hyperlipidemia was established, after which one experimental group received oral 
LBPs at a dose of 300 mg/kg per day. Blood lipids, renal function, and urinary
proteins were measured after 12 weeks. Changes in renal pathology and expression 
levels of sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBP-1),
interleukin-6 (IL- 6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), AMP-activated protein
kinase (AMPK) were determined. Rats with hyperlipidemia induced by a high-fat
diet showed increases in blood lipids and blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, 
and urinary protein, as well as increases in renal levels of SREBP-1, TNF-α, and 
IL-6 and decreases in renal levels of adiponectin and AMPK. Administration of
LBPs restored blood lipid, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and urinary
protein levels, downregulated renal levels of SREBP-1, TNF-α, and IL-6, and
upregulated renal levels of adiponectin and AMPK. These results indicate that
LBPs may mediate lipid metabolism, enhance anti-inflammatory responses, and
ameliorate renal injury caused by lipid metabolism isorders in a rat model of
hyperlipidemia.
EOF
Adenovirus 5 (Ad-5) infection is a common cause of acute respiratory infections
and the main vector used in gene therapy. There are few studies on the
relationship of Ad-5 to obesity. In the present study, we evaluated the chronic
effects of Ad-5 infection on golden (Syrian) hamsters fed either a balanced diet 
(BD) or a high-fat diet (HFD). After a single inoculation with Ad-5 (1 × 107
pfu), the body weight of the animals was measured weekly. Medium-term (22 weeks) 
serum biochemical analyses and long-term (44 weeks) liver morphology, adiposity, 
and locomotive functionality (movement velocity) assessments were carried out. In
the animals fed the BD, adenovirus infection produced hyperglycemia and
hyperlipidemia. In the long term, it produced a 57% increase in epididymal pad
fat and a 30% body weight gain compared with uninoculated animals. In addition,
morphological changes related to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) were
observed. The animals fed the HFD had similar but more severe changes. In
addition, the hamsters presented an obesity paradox: at the end of the study, the
animals that had the most morphological and functional changes (significantly
reduced movement velocity) had the lowest body weight. Despite the fact that an
HFD appears to be a more harmful factor in the long term than adenovirus
infection alone, infection could increase the severity of harmful effects in
individuals with an HFD. Epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate the
effect of adenovirus as a precursor of chronic liver and cardiovascular diseases,
including the chronic effects of gene therapy.
EOF
This study aims to analyze the effects of resisted, aerobic, and combined
exercises on omentin levels in visceral adipose tissue and muscle of rats with
experimental diabetes to verify whether these adipokines are related to the
glucose pathway and inflammation process in this model. Male Wistar rats received
a high-fat diet for 4 weeks and a low dose of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg) to induce
experimental diabetes. After inducing diabetes, the animals were divided into 4
experimental groups (n = 10): diabetic control (C); resistance training (RT);
aerobic training (AT); and combined training (CT). The groups were exercised for 
12 weeks, 3 times/week, where: RT means the stair climbing protocol until
exhaustion; AT is the 30 min/day reaching 20 m/min protocol, and CT is the
combination of RT and AT. The AT group showed reduced retroperitoneal and
mesenteric adipose tissue and abdominal fat deposits. Our study also showed a
possible control of blood glucose, as well as decreased Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and 
C-reactive protein, increased circulating adiponectin and increased omentin in
visceral adipose tissue. In addition, the AT group affected the glucose pathway
by stimulating phosphorylation of Akt in muscle tissue. Omentin also showed a
strong positive correlation with adiponectin and a moderate negative correlation 
with IL-6. Thus, our findings indicated that omentin in type 2 diabetes is
changed by AT. Furthermore, increased omentin levels had a close association with
the glucose pathway by stimulating phosphorylation of Akt in muscle tissue and
with IL-6 in serum, suggesting that omentin is likely to have anti-inflammatory
and protective action in experimental diabetes.
EOF
Recently, the endogenous fatty acid palmitic acid-5-hydroxystearic acid (5-PAHSA)
was found to increase insulin sensitivity and have anti-inflammatory effects in
mice with high-fat diet (HFD)-induced diabetes. However, it is unknown if 5-PAHSA
affects glucose and lipid metabolism in db/db mice, which are characterized by
extreme hyperglycemia. Here, we aim to determine the effect of continued 5-PAHSA 
administration on glucose and lipid metabolism in db/db mice. We also used 3T3-L1
cells and HepG2 cells to investigate the mechanism behind this effect. HepG2
cells and 3T3-L1 cells were induced to become models of insulin resistance. The
models were used to test the effect of 5-PAHSA on insulin signaling. 5-PAHSA was 
administered orally to db/db mice for 1 month to assess its effects on glucose
and lipid metabolism. We also exposed HepG2 cells to high glucose concentrations 
to investigate the influence on 5-PAHSA's effects on hepatic lipid metabolism and
inflammation. 5-PAHSA improved glucose uptake and insulin signaling in HepG2
cells and 3T3-L1 cells. However, after 1 month of treatment, 5-PAHSA did not
reduce blood glucose levels, but increased inflammation and promoted fatty liver 
in db/db mice. In HepG2 cells under normal glucose conditions, 5-PAHSA treatment 
reduced lipogenesis and increased lipid oxidation. Notably, a high glucose
concentration in cell media abolished the positive effects of 5-PAHSA treatment. 
These changes were associated with: decreased phosphorylation of AMP-activated
protein kinase (AMPK) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC); upregulation of
sterol-regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c), and fatty acid synthase
(FAS); and downregulation of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1). Besides,
the anti-inflammatory effect of 5-PAHSA was also impaired by high glucose
conditions. Thus, high glucose concentrations impaired 5-PAHSA action by
inhibiting the AMPK signaling pathway and promoting nuclear factor-kappa-B
(NF-κB) mediated inflammation.
EOF
Accumulation of hyper-phosphorylated and aggregated Tau proteins is a
neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Tauopathies. AD
patient brains also exhibit insulin resistance. Whereas, under normal
physiological conditions insulin signaling in the brain mediates plasticity and
memory formation, it can also regulate peripheral energy homeostasis. Thus, in
AD, brain insulin resistance affects both cognitive and metabolic changes
described in these patients. While a role of Aβ oligomers and APOE4 towards the
development of brain insulin resistance emerged, contribution of Tau pathology
has been largely overlooked. Our recent data demonstrated that one of the
physiological function of Tau is to sustain brain insulin signaling. We
postulated that under pathological conditions, hyper-phosphorylated/aggregated
Tau is likely to lose this function and to favor the development of brain insulin
resistance. This hypothesis was substantiated by observations from patient brains
with pure Tauopathies. To address the potential link between Tau pathology and
brain insulin resistance, we have evaluated the brain response to insulin in a
transgenic mouse model of AD-like Tau pathology (THY-Tau22). Using
electrophysiological and biochemical evaluations, we surprisingly observed that, 
at a time when Tau pathology and cognitive deficits are overt and obvious, the
hippocampus of THY-Tau22 mice exhibits enhanced response to insulin. In addition,
we demonstrated that the ability of i.c.v. insulin to promote body weight loss is
enhanced in THY-Tau22 mice. In line with this, THY-Tau22 mice exhibited a lower
body weight gain, hypoleptinemia and hypoinsulinemia and finally a metabolic
resistance to high-fat diet. The present data highlight that the brain of
transgenic Tau mice exhibit enhanced brain response to insulin. Whether these
observations are ascribed to the development of Tau pathology, and therefore
relevant to human Tauopathies, or unexpectedly results from the Tau transgene
overexpression is debatable and discussed.
EOF
PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to test a low-carbohydrate diet (LCD)
plus walking to reduce androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)-induced metabolic
disturbances.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This randomized multi-center trial of prostate cancer
(PCa) patients initiating ADT was designed to compare an LCD (≤20g
carbohydrate/day) plus walking (≥30 min for ≥5 days/week) intervention vs.
control advised to maintain usual diet and exercise patterns. Primary outcome was
change in insulin resistance by homeostatic model assessment at 6 months. To
detect 20% reduction in insulin resistance, 100 men were required. The study was 
stopped early after randomizing 42 men due to slow accrual. Secondary outcomes
included weight, body composition, lipids, and prostate-specific antigen (PSA).
Changes from baseline were compared between arms using rank-sum tests.
RESULTS: At 6 months, LCD/walking reduced insulin resistance by 4% vs. 36%
increase in control (p = 0.13). At 3 months, vs. control, LCD/walking arm
significantly lost weight (7.8kg; p<0.001), improved insulin resistance (↑36%;
p = 0.015), hemoglobin A1c (↓3.3%; p = 0.01), high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
(↑13%; p = 0.004), and triglyceride (↓37%; p = 0.036). At 6 months, weight loss
(10.6kg; p<0.001) and HDL (↑27%; p = 0.003) remained significant. LCD/walking
preserved total body bone mineral count (p = 0.025), reduced fat mass
(p = 0.002), lean mass (p = 0.036), and percent body fat (p = 0.004). There were 
no differences in PSA. Limitations include the effect of LCD, weight loss vs.
walking instruction are indistinguishable, and small sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: In an underpowered study, LCD/walking did not improve insulin
sensitivity at 6 months. Given most secondary outcomes were improved at 3 months 
with some remaining improved at 6 months and a secondary analysis showed that
LCD/walking reduced insulin resistance over the study, supporting future larger
studies of LCD/walking intervention to reduce ADT-induced disturbances.
EOF
Increasing number of patients with high body-mass index (BMI) are encountered in 
the orthodontic clinic with the growing prevalence of obesity and overweight
worldwide. Some clinical studies found that the rate of orthodontic tooth
movement (OTM) in obese patients decreased. However, how obesity can impact OTM
has not been determined yet. Here, we used the high-fat diet (HFD) induced obese 
mouse model to translate this clinical problem to the basic research, and back to
exploring the potential clinical applications. C57BL/6J mice were fed with
high-fat diet (HFD) for 5 weeks to induce obesity and orthodontic nickel-titanium
springs were applied to the upper first molars to establish OTM model. The serum 
level of leptin was tested by ELISA. Mouse macrophage cell line RAW264.7 cells
were used as osteoclast progenitor cells stimulated by sRANKL with the presence
or absence of letpin in vitro. TRAP staining was used to detect osteoclasts.
Leptin was administrated intraperitoneally in mice to determine whether it can
affect OTM in vivo. In obese mice, we found that OTM was attenuated and the
number of osteoclasts decreased with the elevated serum level of leptin.
Mechanically, we confirmed that leptin inhibited osteoclastogenesis and
osteoclast functional genes expression. To translate our findings back to
potential applications, we then revealed the administration of leptin could
decrease OTM in wild type mice along with the decreased number of TRAP-positive
osteoclasts. Taken together, these results demonstrated that the elevated level
of leptin in obese mice was able to inhibit osteoclastogenesis and decrease OTM. 
Administration of leptin could inhibit molar mesial movement and possessed the
potential to be a clinical anchorage reinforcement method.
EOF
Objective: Current research has reported that obesity is a chronic inflammatory
state, which is closely related with excessive accumulation of free fatty acid,
while the specific mechanism that high level of FFA causes inflammation is not
very clear. Thus, our research intended to observe the high FFA effects on
TLR9/KLF4 expression and the downstream inflammatory factors, to explore the
mechanism of inflammatory response suppressed by TLR9/KLF4.
Methods: qRT-PCR and Western blot were used to detect the mRNA and protein
expression levels of TLR9, KLF4, and key inflammation-related factors. ELISA was 
used to detect the release level of inflammatory cytokines. The triglyceride (TG)
and glucose (GLU) testing cassettes were used to detect the TG and GLU levels in 
culture medium.
Results: In the omental tissue of obese individuals (OB), we found that TLR9,
KLF4, mRNA, and the protein expression levels were lower than those of the normal
weight control (NC) group. Similarly, in the omental tissue of high-fat diet
(HFD) rats, we found that the mRNA expression levels of TLR9 and KLF4 were lower 
than those of the normal diet control group. In mature adipocytes, we found that 
KLF4 played an important anti-inflammatory role; moreover, PA can promote the
development of inflammation by inhibiting KLF4 expression; TLR9 has a positive
regulation function on KLF4 expression, but unrelated to PA.
Conclusions: TLR9/KLF4 is involved in regulating FFA-induced adipocyte
inflammation.
EOF
The proliferation and adipogenesis of preadipocytes played important roles in the
development of adipose tissue and contributed much to the processes of obesity.
On the other hand, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), also known as endotoxin, is a key
outer membrane component of gram-negative bacteria in the gut microbiota, and has
a dominant role in linking inflammation to high-fat diet-induced metabolic
syndrome. Studies suggested the potential roles of LPS in hepatic steatosis and
in obese mice models. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying LPS-regulated 
obesity remained largely unknown. Here we reported that LPS stimulated expression
of cyosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), one of inflammation regulators of obesity, 
in the preadipocytes. Pretreatment the inhibitors of JAK2, STAT3, STAT5 or AMPK
significantly reduced LPS-increased mRNA and protein expression of cPLA2 together
with phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT3, STAT5 and AMPK, separately. Similarly,
transfection of siRNA against JAK2 or AMPK abolished expression of cPLA2 and
phosphorylation of JAK2 or AMPK together with downregulated expression of JAK2
and AMPK protein. LPS enhanced activation of STAT3 and STAT5 via JAK2-dependent
manner in the preadipocytes. Transfection of JAK2 or AMPK siRNA further proofed
the independence of JAK2 and AMPK in LPS-treated preadipocytes. In addition,
LPS-increased DNA synthesis, cell numbers and cell viability of preadipocytes
were attenuated by AACOCF3, AG490, BML-275, cPLA2 siRNA, JAK2 siRNA or AMPK
siRNA. Attenuation JAK2/STAT or AMPK-dependent cPLA2 expression reduced
LPS-mediated adipogenesis of preadipocytes. Stimulation of arachidonic acid or
AMPK activator, A-769662, increased cell numbers and cell viability and promoted 
differentiation of preadipocytes. Collectively, these results indicated that LPS 
increased preadipocytes proliferation and adipogenesis via JAK/STAT and
AMPK-dependent cPLA2 expression. The mechanisms of LPS-stimulated cPLA2
expression may be a link between bacteria and obesity and provides the molecular 
basis for preventing metabolic syndrome or hyperplasic obesity.
EOF
Fatty acid translocase CD36 (CD36) is a multifunctional membrane protein that
facilitates the uptake of long-chain fatty acid (LCFA). Lipophagy is autophagic
degradation of lipid droplets. Accumulating evidence suggests that CD36 is
involved in the regulation of intracellular signal transduction that modulates
fatty acid storage or usage. However, little is known about the relationship
between CD36 and lipophagy. In this study, we found that increasedCD36 expression
was coupled with decreasedautophagy in the livers of mice treated with a high-fat
diet. Overexpressing CD36 in HepG2 and Huh7 cells inhibited autophagy, while
knocking down CD36 expression induced autophagy due to the increased
autophagosome formation in autophagic flux. Meanwhile, knockout of CD36 in mice
increased autophagy while reconstruction of CD36 expression in CD36-knockout mice
reduced autophagy. CD36 knockdown in HepG2 cells increased lipophagy and
β-oxidation, which contributed to improving lipid accumulation. In addition, CD36
expression regulated autophagy through the AMPK pathway with phosphorylation of
ULK1/Beclin1 also involved in the process. These findings suggest that CD36 is a 
negative regulator of autophagy and induction of lipophagy by ameliorating CD36
expression can be a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of fatty
liver diseases through attenuating lipid over-accumulation.
EOF
Anxiety disorders are associated with body weight changes in humans. However, the
mechanisms underlying anxiety-induced weight changes remain poorly understood.
Using Emx1Cre/+ mice, we deleted the gene for brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF) in the cortex, hippocampus, and some amygdalar subregions. The resulting
mutant mice displayed impaired GABAergic transmission and elevated anxiety. They 
were leaner when fed either a chow diet or a high-fat diet, owing to higher
sympathetic activity, basal metabolic rate, brown adipocyte thermogenesis, and
beige adipocyte formation, compared to control mice. BDNF re-expression in the
amygdala rescued the anxiety and metabolic phenotypes in mutant mice. Conversely,
anxiety induced by amygdala-specific Bdnf deletion or administration of an
inverse GABAA receptor agonist increased energy expenditure. These results reveal
that increased activities in anxiogenic circuits can reduce body weight by
promoting adaptive thermogenesis and basal metabolism via the sympathetic nervous
system and suggest that amygdalar GABAergic neurons are a link between anxiety
and metabolic dysfunction.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The contribution of dietary factors in the development and
progression of pre-diabetes has been increasingly recognized. However, due to
high variability in dietary habits measurement of dietary intake remains one of
the most challenging tasks in this population. Food frequency questionnaire (FFQ)
which investigates usual dietary intake can be used to identify frequent
consumption of foods such as dietary fat, fiber, grains that are linked to the
risk of pre-diabetes.
METHOD: This systematic review was conducted to identify and describe FFQs that
measure dietary intake of pre-diabetic patients and to examine their relative
validity and reliability. The systematic search was done through electronic
databases such as PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO, ProQuest and Scopus. Methodological
quality of included studies and results of study outcome was also summarized in
this review.
RESULT: The search identified 445 papers, of which 18 studies reported 15 FFQs,
met inclusion criteria. Most of the FFQs (n = 12) were semi-quantitative while
three were frequency measures with portion size estimation of selected food
items. Test-retest reliability of FFQ was reported in 7 (38.3%) studies with the 
correlation coefficient of 0.33-0.92. Relative validity of FFQ was reported in 16
(88.8%) studies with the range of correlation coefficient of 0.08-0.83. Dietary
patterns rich in carbohydrate, fat, animal protein and n-3 fatty acids were
associated with increased risk of pre-diabetes.
CONCLUSION: No well-established disease-specific FFQ identified in the
literature. Development of a valid, practical and reliable tool is needed for
better understanding of the impact of diet in pre-diabetic population.
EOF
PURPOSE: This study aimed to study the protective effects and mechanism of Blue
Honeysuckle (BH) extracts (Berries of Lonicera caerulea L.) on non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and obesity risk factors in a high fat-diet (HFD)
model.
METHODS: Animals adapted to HFD were selected after 1 week of adaption period and
divided into 6 groups (8 mice in each group; 40 HFD-fed mice and 8 normal fat
pellet diet (NFD)-fed mice). After the end of 12 weeks of continuous oral
administrations of 3 different dosages of BH extract, 400, 200 and 100 mg/kg, or 
metformin 250 mg/kg, dissolved in a volume of 10 mL/kg distilled water, the
hepatoprotective, hypolipidemic, hypoglycemic, nephroprotective, and anti-obesity
effects were analyzed.
RESULTS: The BH extract improved fat density and mass, adipocyte histopathology, 
hepatocyte hypertrophy, hepatic enzyme activity, lipid metabolism, and related
gene expression including ACC1, AMPK α1 and AMPK α2 in hepatic tissue, leptin,
UCP2, adiponectin, C/EBP α, C/EBPβ and SREBP1c in adipose tissue. Especially, 200
mg/kg of BH extract constantly improved NAFLD and obesity risk factors through
AMPK upregulation-mediated hepatic glucose enzyme activity, lipid
metabolism-related gene expression, and activation of the antioxidant defense
system, to a level comparable to that of metformin 250 mg/kg in HFD-fed mice.
CONCLUSION: BH extract has the potential to reduce the risk factors associated
with obesity, in addition to the remarkable effect of preventing NAFLD. Future
research will need to be done to determine whether these results are consistent
in human studies.
EOF
Altered GLP-1 secretion from L cells has been implicated in the development of
type 2 diabetes mellitus and its resolution following bariatric surgery. However,
changes in L cell gene expression, which may form the basis for altered
functionality after high fat diet (HFD) or bariatric surgery, have either not
been investigated or have given conflicting results. We developed a gcg-DTR-eGFP 
reporter mouse to isolate ileal and colonic L cells from HFD fed insulin
resistant mice and mice showing improved glucose tolerance following vertical
sleeve gastrectomy (VSG). Transcriptomic sequencing and identification of genes
differentially expressed in response to HFD or VSG revealed small changes with
HFD, primarily in immune related genes, but no regulation following VSG. In
contrast, large differences were observed between ileal and colonic L cells due
to the differential expression of genes involved in nutrient transport and
metabolism, reflecting to some extent the differences in the surrounding
epithelium. We showed that, in line with the gene expression data, colonic and
ileal L cells exhibit differing GLP-1 responses to nutrients (glucose and the
gly-sar dipeptide) and hormones (vasopressin). Thus, we hypothesise that colonic 
and ileal L cells have different physiological roles, with ileal L cells
contributing more to postprandial glucose homeostasis by responding to dietary
nutrients and colonic cells responding more to non-dietary stimulants.
EOF
Obesity-associated hypothalamic inflammation plays an important role in the
development of defective neuronal control of whole body energy balance. Because
dietary fats are the main triggers of hypothalamic inflammation, we hypothesized 
that CD1, a lipid-presenting protein, may be involved in the hypothalamic
inflammatory response in obesity. Here, we show that early after the introduction
of a high-fat diet, CD1 expressing cells gradually appear in the mediobasal
hypothalamus. The inhibition of hypothalamic CD1 reduces diet-induced
hypothalamic inflammation and rescues the obese and glucose-intolerance phenotype
of mice fed a high-fat diet. Conversely, the chemical activation of hypothalamic 
CD1 further increases diet-induced obesity and hypothalamic inflammation. A
bioinformatics analysis revealed that hypothalamic CD1 correlates with
transcripts encoding for proteins known to be involved in diet-induced
hypothalamic abnormalities in obesity. Thus, CD1 is involved in at least part of 
the hypothalamic inflammatory response in diet-induced obesity and its modulation
affects the body mass phenotype of mice.
EOF
Diets that contain high proportions of either wheat or supplementary fat have
been individually reported to reduce enteric methane production. The objective of
this research was to determine the effect of dietary fat supplementation on
methane emissions and milk yield from cows fed diets containing either corn or
wheat grains. It was hypothesized that cows fed a diet containing wheat would
produce less methane and have lower methane yield (methane per kg of dry matter
intake; MY) than cows fed a diet containing corn and that methane mitigation from
fat supplementation would occur irrespective of the type of grain in the basal
diet. The experiment involved 32 Holstein-Friesian dairy cows allocated to 1 of 4
treatment groups (n = 8) and individually fed different diets restricted to
approximately 90% of their mean ad libitum intake measured during a covariate
period. All animals were offered 11.5 kg of dry matter/d of alfalfa hay, 1.8 kg
of dry matter/d of solvent-extracted canola meal, and 1 of 4 dietary supplements.
Dietary supplements were 8 kg of dry matter/d of either corn or wheat, or these
same treatments with the addition of 0.8 kg of canola oil. In this 5-wk
experiment, d 1 to 7 served as the covariate period, d 8 to 14 as the transition 
period, d 15 to 28 as the adaptation period, and d 29 to 35 as the experimental
period. Cows were fed their full treatment diets from d 15 to 35 during which
time milk production and feed intake were measured daily. During d 29 to 35,
methane production was measured for individual cows daily using the sulfur
hexafluoride tracer method. The resulting averages for milk production and feed
intake were analyzed by analysis of covariance with factorial grain by fat as
treatment structure, animal as the unit within blocks, and the corresponding milk
production or feed intake covariate averages as principal covariate. Data on milk
fatty acids, ruminal fluid data on pH, ammonia, volatile fatty acids, protozoa,
and methane were analyzed by ANOVA using the same treatment and blocking
structures excluding the principal covariate. Cows fed a diet containing wheat
had greater MY than cows fed a diet containing corn. Irrespective of the type of 
grain in the diet, increasing the fat concentration from 2 to 6% dry matter
reduced MY. It is concluded that the grain component in the basal diet does not
affect the mitigating effects of dietary fat supplements on MY.
EOF
Aquatic organisms, including important cultured species, are forced to contend
with acute changes in water temperature as the frequency and intensity of extreme
weather events worsen. Acute temperature spikes are likely to threaten
aquaculture species, but dietary intervention may play an important protective
role. Increasing the concentration of macronutrients, for example dietary fat
content, may improve the thermal resilience of aquaculture species, however, this
remains unexplored. To evaluate this hypothesis, we used two commercially
available diets (20% versus 10% crude fat) to examine if dietary fat content
improves the growth performance of juvenile barramundi (Lates calcarifer) while
increasing their resilience to acute thermal stress. Fish were fed their assigned
diets for 28-days before assessing the upper thermal tolerance (CTMAX) and the
thermal sensitivity of swimming performance (UCRIT) and metabolism. We found that
feeding fish a high fat diet resulted in heavier fish, but did not affect the
thermal sensitivity of swimming performance or metabolism over an 18 °C
temperature range (from 20 to 38 °C). Thermal tolerance was compromised in fish
fed the high fat diet by 0.48 °C, showing significantly lower CTMAX. Together,
these results suggest that while a high fat diet increases juvenile L. calcarifer
growth, it does not benefit physiological performance across a range of relevant 
water temperatures and may even reduce fish tolerance of extreme water
temperatures. These data may have implications for aquaculture production in a
warming world, where episodic extremes of temperature are likely to become more
frequent.
EOF
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the late onset of
diet-induced obesity (DIO) in middle-aged mice affected behavioral, immunological
and oxidative stress parameters as well as life span of male and female mice.
Also, it was analyzed whether the late DIO onset aggravated immunosenescence in
old female mice. Late-adult male and female ICR/CD1 mice (28 weeks old) were fed 
either a high-fat diet or a standard diet during 14 weeks. After that, in these
middle-aged (42 weeks old) diet-induced obese (DIO) and non-DIO controls,
behavior as well as functions and redox state of peritoneal leukocytes were
evaluated. These same parameters (excepting behavioral tests) were repeated when 
female mice were old (72 weeks old). The results showed lower exploratory
activity and higher anxiety-like behavior in middle-aged male and female DIO than
in controls. Moreover, these DIO animals from both sexes exhibited statistically 
significant impaired immune cell functions, such as chemotaxis of macrophages and
lymphocytes, phagocytosis of macrophages, natural killer activity and
lymphoproliferation in response to ConA and LPS, as well as an oxidative stress
state in comparison with controls. Male DIO mice exhibited higher impairments in 
a variety of the evaluated parameters and a shorter life span than their female
counterparts. In addition, female DIO mice, at old age, showed aggravated
immunosenescence. In conclusion, the late DIO onset leads to impairments in
behavior as well as in immune system functions of middle-aged male and female
mice, males being significantly more affected than females.
EOF
Semi-synthetic diets (SSD) are recommended and are widely used to carry out
experiments in rodents. However, in our experiments planned to carry out
generation studies in female Golden Syrian hamsters using semi-synthetic diets,
it was observed that the hamsters did not conceive as a result of decreased food 
intake. In this paper, we present the effects of both semi-synthetic diets and
natural source diets (NSD) on food intake, body weight and reproductive
performance of this species. Four-week-old female hamsters were equally divided
into 3 groups and initially acclimatized for 2 weeks on natural chow diet (NCD). 
Thereafter, they were fed either control diet, high fat diet (HFD) or low protein
diet (LPD) based on semi-synthetic/natural source ingredients until 12 weeks.
Daily food intake and weekly body weights were monitored. Hamsters were kept for 
mating for about 2 weeks from 10th week onwards, during which the pregnancy
confirmation test was done using standard vaginal smear examination. In all the
groups fed SSD, the food intake was very poor, hamsters lost body weight and did 
not conceive, thus preventing us from carrying out further experiments. Hamsters 
fed NCD/NSD ingested more than twice as much as hamsters fed SSD
(7-8 g/day/hamster against 3 g/day/hamster on average respectively). Based on the
results of the current research, we conclude that the routinely used
semi-synthetic diet is not suitable for carrying out studies in female hamsters. 
We suggest that scientists must also consider the unusual biological
characteristics of a given species besides other biological factors. It is
therefore critical to select appropriate biological models and diets that provide
optimal sensitivity and specificity to accomplish the research objectives.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Gastrointestinal motility has been reported to be altered in obesity.
However, it is unknown whether intestinal myoelectrical activity (IMA) is also
changed in obesity.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to characterize intestinal myoelectrical and
motility activities in the fasting state, during feeding, and postprandial state 
after various test meals in diet-induced obese (DIO) rats in comparison with
regular rats.
METHODS: IMA was recorded in the fasting, feeding, and postprandial states in DIO
and regular rats. Regular laboratory chow, high-fat solid food, and high-fat
liquid food were used to test IMA responses to different meals.
RESULTS: (1) The intestinal slow waves in the DIO rats were not different from
those in normal rats in the fasting or postprandial state. Neither intestinal
transit nor the number of intestinal contractions per minute was altered in DIO
rats although gastric emptying was accelerated. (2) Both DIO rats and normal rats
showed altered IMA during the first minute of feeding (cephalic stimulation). (3)
The intestinal slow waves in both DIO rats and regular rats were impaired
slightly but significantly after intake of a high-fat meal.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that intestinal myoelectrical activity is not
altered in DIO rats and its postprandial responses to various meals are not
altered either. High-fat meals induce intestinal dysrhythmia but do not have a
chronic impact on intestinal slow waves in DIO rats.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: To describe the associations of income and race with obesogenic
behaviors and % body fat among a large sample of U.S. children and adolescents.
DESIGN: Data were obtained from the 2003-2004 and 2005-2006 National Health and
Nutritional Examination Survey. Multiple linear regression models and
interactions were used to examine the associations of moderate-to-vigorous
physical activity (MVPA), sedentary time, diet quality, and screen-time with
income-to-poverty ratio and race. Separate stratified analyses explored
associations among individual obesogenic behaviors within race and income groups.
RESULTS: This study included children and adolescents (n = 3551,
mean = 13.1 years, SD = 3.9 years) who were 37% Hispanic, 27% White, and 35%
Black. Overall, Hispanic children/adolescents had significantly higher levels of 
adiposity (3.6, 95 CI = 0.9, 6.3) than white children and adolescents.
Medium-income children and adolescents engaged in less MVPA (- 3.3 min, 95
CI = - 5.1, - 1.5), had poorer diet quality (- 1.1, 95 CI = - 1.9, - 0.2), and
used screens less (- 33.9 min, 95 CI = - 45.4, - 22.4) than children and
adolescents from low-income households. High-income children and adolescents also
engaged in less MVPA (- 3.1 min, 95 CI = - 5.5, - 0.7) and used screens less
(- 62.9 min, 95 CI = - 78.3, - 47.4) than children and adolescents from
low-income households. However, there were significant race/ethnicity-by-income
interactions for high-income Hispanic children and adolescents with diet quality 
(- 3.5 HEI-2010 score, 95 CI = - 6.6, - 0.4) and screen time (66.9 min, 95
CI = 24.7, 109.0). There was also a significant race/ethnicity-by-income
interaction for the screen-time of Black children and adolescents from medium
(33.8 min, 95% CI 0.2, 67.3) and high (75.8 min, 95% CI 34.7, 117.0) income
households.
CONCLUSIONS: There appears to be a complex relationship that varies by
race/ethnicity between income, obesogenic behaviors, and adiposity levels among
children and adolescents. More work is needed to identify the behavioral
mechanisms that are driving disparate rates of overweight and obesity among
minority children and those from low-income households.
EOF
C57BL/6J (BL6J) and C57BL/6N (BL6N) inbred substrains are most widely used to
understand the pathological roles of target molecules in a variety of diseases,
including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), based on transgenic mouse
technologies. There are notable differences in the metabolic phenotypes,
including glucose tolerance, between the BL6J and BL6N substrains, but the
phenotypic differences in NASH are still unknown. We performed a comparative
analysis of the two mouse substrains to identify the pathological phenotypic
differences in NASH models. In the CCl4-induced NASH model, the BL6J mice
exhibited a more severe degree of oxidative stress and fibrosis in the liver than
the BL6N mice. In contrast, in the high-fat diet-induced NASH model, more
accumulation of hepatic triglycerides but less weight gain and liver injury were 
noted in the BL6J mice than in the BL6N mice. Our findings strongly suggest
caution be exercised with the use of unmatched mixed genetic background C57BL6
mice for studies related to NASH, especially when generating conditional knockout
C57BL6 mice.
EOF
BACKGROUND: A westernized diet comprising a high caloric intake from animal fats 
is known to influence the development of pathological inflammatory conditions.
However, there has been relatively little focus upon the implications of such
diets for the progression of infectious disease. Here, we investigated the
influence of a high-fat (HF) diet upon parameters that influence Listeria
monocytogenes infection in mice.
RESULTS: We determined that short-term administration of a HF diet increases the 
number of goblet cells, a known binding site for the pathogen, in the gut and
also induces profound changes to the microbiota and promotes a pro-inflammatory
gene expression profile in the host. Host physiological changes were concordant
with significantly increased susceptibility to oral L. monocytogenes infection in
mice fed a HF diet relative to low fat (LF)- or chow-fed animals. Prior to
Listeria infection, short-term consumption of HF diet elevated levels of
Firmicutes including Coprococcus, Butyricicoccus, Turicibacter and Clostridium
XIVa species. During active infection with L. monocytogenes, microbiota changes
were further exaggerated but host inflammatory responses were significantly
downregulated relative to Listeria-infected LF- or chow-fed groups, suggestive of
a profound tempering of the host response influenced by infection in the context 
of a HF diet. The effects of diet were seen beyond the gut, as a HF diet also
increased the sensitivity of mice to systemic infection and altered gene
expression profiles in the liver.
CONCLUSIONS: We adopted a systems approach to identify the effects of HF diet
upon L. monocytogenes infection through analysis of host responses and microbiota
changes (both pre- and post-infection). Overall, the results indicate that
short-term consumption of a westernized diet has the capacity to significantly
alter host susceptibility to L. monocytogenes infection concomitant with changes 
to the host physiological landscape. The findings suggest that diet should be a
consideration when developing models that reflect human infectious disease.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Prenatal dexamethasone treatment has been shown to enhance the
susceptibility of offspring to postnatal high-fat (HF) diet-induced programmed
obesity. We investigated the metabolic phenotypes, nutrient-sensing signal and
circadian-clock genes in adipose tissue that are programmed by prenatal
dexamethasone exposure and postnatal HF diet.
METHODS: Male offspring of Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four
experimental groups: normal diet, prenatal dexamethasone exposure, postnatal HF
diet, and prenatal dexamethasone plus postnatal HF diet. Postnatal HF diet was
prescribed from weaning to 6 months of age.
RESULTS: Prenatal dexamethasone and postnatal HF diet exerted synergistic effects
on body weight and visceral adiposity, whereas prenatal dexamethasone and
postnatal HF diet altered the metabolic profile and caused leptin dysregulation. 
Prenatal dexamethasone and postnatal HF diet distinctly influenced
nutrient-sensing molecules and circadian-clock genes in adipose tissue. The mRNA 
expression of mTOR, AMPK-α2, PPAR-α, and PPAR-γ was suppressed by prenatal
dexamethasone but enhanced by postnatal HF diet.
CONCLUSION: Prenatal dexamethasone and postnatal HF treatment cause dysregulation
of nutrient-sensing molecules and circadian-clock genes in visceral adipose
tissue. Characterizing altered nutrient-sensing molecules and circadian-clock
genes has potential therapeutic relevance with respect to the pathogenesis and
treatment of prenatal stress and postnatal HF diet-related metabolic disorders.
EOF
BACKGROUND Diabetes is a risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis and coronary
heart disease. Resveratrol (RESV) is a natural compound with anti-inflammatory
effects. The objective of this study is to evaluate the cardio protective effects
of RESV in a diabetic rat model with coronary heart disease. MATERIAL AND METHODS
Diabetic rat model with coronary heart disease was constructed by feeding
high-fat and high-calorie diet, followed by injection of streptozotocin. The
diabetic rats received RESV or DMSO as treatment. Insulin, total cholesterol, and
total triglyceride levels in serum were measured using enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to evaluate the effect of RESV in alleviating
diabetic symptoms. Inflammatory factors, including tumor necrotic factor α,
interleukin-6, interleukin-8, intracellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular-cell
adhesion molecule 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were assayed using
ELISA. Real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis were
performed to evaluate the impact of RESV treatment on the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB
signaling pathway (toll-like receptor 4/myeloid differentiation factor 88/nuclear
factor kappa B signaling pathway). Hematoxylin and eosin staining was used to
document pathological changes in cardiovascular muscles. RESULTS RESV preserved
pancreatic tissue, which therefore reduced levels of glucose and triglycerides
glyceride in serum. Inflammatory factors were also suppressed by RESV.
TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway was downregulated after RESV treatment.
CONCLUSIONS RESV offers protective effects of cardiovascular tissues in the
diabetic rat model with coronary heart disease. Those effects are mediated by
downregulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The neuropeptide catestatin (CST) is an endogenous nicotinic
cholinergic antagonist that acts as pleiotropic cardiac protective hormone. This 
study investigated the association between CST and coronary artery disease (CAD) 
and the underlying mechanisms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The serum concentration of CST among 224 CAD patients and
204 healthy controls was compared, and its association with atherosclerosis
severity in 921 CAD patients was further analyzed. Compared to healthy subjects, 
serum CST concentration was lower in patients with CAD [1.14 (1.05-1.24) ng/mL
vs. 2.15 (1.92-2.39) ng/mL, p < 0.001] and was inversely correlated with disease 
severity (r = -0.208, p < 0.001). In cultured endothelial cells, CST suppressed
TNF-α-elicited expression of inflammatory cytokines and adhesion molecules by
activating angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2). Administration of CST reduced 
leukocyte-endothelium interactions in vitro and in vivo, and attenuated the
development of atherosclerotic in ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet. These
protective effects by CST were blocked by an ACE2 inhibitor.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum CST concentration is lower in CAD patients and is inversely
associated with the severity of atherosclerosis. CST acts as a novel
anti-atherogenic peptide that inhibits inflammatory response and EC-leukocyte
interactions via an ACE2-dependent mechanism.
EOF
With obesity rates reaching epidemic proportions, more studies concentrated on
reducing the risk and treating this epidemic are vital. Redox stress is an
important metabolic regulator involved in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular
disease, Type 2 diabetes, and obesity. Oxygen and nitrogen-derived free radicals 
alter glucose and lipid homeostasis in key metabolic tissues, leading to
increases in risk of developing metabolic syndrome. Oxidants derived from dietary
fat differ in their metabolic regulation, with numerous studies showing benefits 
from a high omega 3 rich diet compared to the frequently consumed "western diet" 
rich in saturated fat. Omega 3 (OM3) fatty acids improve lipid profile, lower
inflammation, and ameliorate insulin resistance, possibly through maintaining
redox homeostasis. This study is based on the hypothesis that altering endogenous
antioxidant production and/or increasing OM3 rich diet consumption will improve
energy metabolism and maintain insulin sensitivity. We tested the comparative
metabolic effects of a diet rich in saturated fat (HFD) and an omega 3-enriched
diet (OM3) in the newly developed 'stress-less' mice model that overexpresses the
endogenous antioxidant catalase. Eight weeks of dietary intervention showed that 
mice overexpressing endogenous catalase compared to their wild-type controls when
fed an OM3 enriched diet, in contrast to HFD, activated GPR120-Nrf2 cross-talk to
maintain balanced energy metabolism, normal circadian rhythm, and insulin
sensitivity. These findings suggest that redox regulation of GPR120/FFAR4 might
be an important target in reducing risk of metabolic syndrome and associated
diseases.
EOF
Background: Cross-sectional studies indicate an age-related decline in vitamin B6
status. Because longitudinal studies are lacking, the present study investigates 
the long-term association between age and vitamin B6 status in older adults by
considering potential confounding factors.
Methods: The study population consists of 249 women and 111 men aged ≥ 60 years, 
who had at least three follow-ups between 1996 and 2014 with complete data
records on relevant parameters. Vitamin B6 status was assessed by serum pyridoxal
5´-phosphate (PLP) concentrations measured by high performance liquid
chromatography. Linear mixed models were used to analyze the influence of age,
sex, body composition, supplements, diet, lifestyle and serum creatinine on PLP
concentrations.
Results: At baseline, 37 % of the subjects showed PLP concentrations < 30 nmol/L 
and more than half failed to meet the recommended dietary intake. Longitudinal
analyses revealed that age, use of supplements and protein intake were positive
determinants of PLP concentrations, whereas body fat showed a negative impact. No
influence of sex, dietary vitamin B6 intake, lifestyle factors or serum
creatinine on PLP concentrations was found.
Conclusion: The present study provides no evidence that in the course of aging
PLP concentrations decline between 60 and 90 years. However, age-related changes 
in body composition, such as an increased ratio of fat mass to fat-free mass may 
negatively affect vitamin B6 status.
EOF
Pleurotus eryngii var. ferulae (PEF) is traditionally used in the prevention and 
treatment of lifestyle-related diseases. In this study, we investigated the
ability of PEF extract to prevent obesity and metabolic diseases and explored the
underlying mechanism. Mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) containing PEF extract 
for 12 weeks, and their body weight, adipose tissue and liver weights, and lipid 
profiles and blood glucose levels, were monitored. Fecal triglyceride (TG) levels
were also measured and olive oil-loading tests were performed. Furthermore, the
effect of PEF extract on pancreatic lipase (PL) activity was examined in vitro.
Treatment with PEF extract for 12 weeks resulted in a significant decrease in the
HFD-induced increases in body weight, white adipose tissue weight, liver weights,
and lipid profiles, and improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. To
assess the mechanism underlying the effect of PEF extract on obesity and
diabetes, we investigated its role in inhibiting lipid absorption. Consumption of
an HFD containing PEF extract significantly increased the TG level in feces
compared with the controls, suggesting inhibition of TG absorption in the
digestive tract. Furthermore, PEF extract suppressed the increase in serum TG
levels resulting from oral administration of a lipid emulsion to mice, confirming
inhibition of TG absorption. Moreover, PEF extract inhibited PL activity in
vitro. Our combined results indicate that the anti-obesity and antidiabetic
effect of PEF extract in mice fed an HFD may be caused by inhibition of lipid
absorption as a result of reduced PL activity.
EOF
SCOPE: Brown adipose tissue (BAT) dissipates energy through uncoupling protein 1 
(UCP1) and has been proposed as an anti-obesity target. It was reported
previously that a high-fat (HF) diet enriched in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA)
significantly increased UCP1 and other thermogenic markers in BAT. It is
hypothesized that these effects are mediated through UCP1-dependent regulation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Wild-type (WT) and UCP1 knockout (KO) B6 male mice were
housed at thermoneutrality and fed a HF diet, without or with eicosapentaenoic
acid (EPA)-enriched fish oil. HF-fed KO mice were heavier and had higher BAT
lipid content than other groups. Protective effects of EPA in WT, previously
observed at 22 °C (reduced adiposity, improved glucose tolerance, and increased
UCP1), disappeared at thermoneutrality. Mitochondrial proteins, cytochrome c
oxidase subunit 1 (COX I), COX I, II, and IV were reduced in the KO mice compared
to WT. Unexpectedly, EPA attenuated weight and fat mass gain and improved glucose
tolerance in the KO mice. Finally, EPA increased BAT peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1α) protein and
gene expression, and whole-body oxygen consumption in KO mice, consistent with
increased mitochondria DNA (mtDNA)/nuclear DNA (nucDNA) ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: EPA rescued the weight gain and glucose intolerance in UCP1 KO mice 
at thermoneutrality, independent of UCP1; these effects may be mediated in part
via increased oxygen consumption and BAT PGC1α.
EOF
Purpose: The antioxidant resveratrol (RSV) has low bioavailability and can reach 
the colon to access the gut microbial ecosystem. RSV administration together with
high-fat diet prevented abnormal changes of intestinal microbiota. However,
whether or not RSV can reshape the intestinal microbiota of obese mice and
alleviate obesity-related diseases remains to be studied. This study aimed to
explore the role of RSV in alleviating high-fat-induced obesity and its
relationship with oxidative stress and gut microbiota.
Methods: Male C57BL/6 mice were divided into five groups and administered for 16 
weeks with: standard diet (CON), high-fat diet (60% energy for lard, HFD), and
HFD with low, medium, and high dose of RSV, 50, 75, and 100 mg/kg body weight
administered daily via drinking water, respectively.
Results: Medium and high RSV treatment significantly prevented body weight gain, 
decreased relative weight of liver and adipose tissue compared with HFD (P<0.05).
All doses significantly prevented HFD-induced increase of serum triglyceride, low
density lipoprotein cholesterol, glucose, and endotoxemia (P<0.05). Medium and
high dose also prevented chronic inflammation by decreasing serum interleukin-1
and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (P<0.05), and oxidative stress in liver and brain
indicated by increase in superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase
activity (P<0.05). Formation of malondialdehyde was prevented by all doses
compared with HFD (P<0.05). Both medium and high doses of RES increased alpha
diversity of gut microbiota according to the Chao1 and Shannon indices (P<0.05). 
Medium dose induced obvious shift in gut microbiota composition according to
principal component analysis. High dose of RSV effectively prevented HFD-induced 
increase of Coriobacteriaceae and Desulfovi-brionaceae (P<0.05), which show a
significant correlation with body weight (r>0.8 P<0.00).
Conclusion: RSV prevented HFD-induced endotoxemia, oxidative stress, and gut
microbiota change.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Ectopic fat deposition is associated with increased tissue production 
of ceramides. Recent genetic mouse studies suggest that specific sphingolipid
C16:0 ceramide produced by ceramide synthase 6 (CerS6) plays an important role in
the development of insulin resistance. However, the therapeutic potential of
CerS6 inhibition not been demonstrated. Therefore, we pharmacologically
investigated the selective ablation of CerS6 using antisense oligonucleotides
(ASO) in obese insulin resistance animal models.
METHODS: We utilized ASO as therapeutic modality, CerS6 ASO molecules designed
and synthesized were initially screened for in-vitro knock-down (KD) potency and 
cytotoxicity. ASOs with >85% inhibition of CerS6 mRNA were selected for further
investigations. Most promising ASOs verified for in-vivo KD efficacy in healthy
mice. CerS6 ASO (AAGATGAGCCGCACC) was found most active with hepatic reduction of
CerS6 mRNA expression. Prior to longitudinal metabolic studies, we performed a
dose titration target engagement analysis with CerS6 ASO in healthy mice to
select the optimal dose. Next, we utilized leptin deficiency ob/ob and high fat
diet (HFD) induced obese mouse models for pharmacological efficacy study.
RESULTS: CerS6 expression were significantly elevated in the liver and brown
adipose, this was correlated with significantly elevated C16:0 ceramide
concentrations in plasma and liver. Treatment with CerS6 ASO selectively reduced 
CerS6 expression by ∼90% predominantly in the liver and this CerS6 KD resulted in
a significant reduction of C16:0 ceramide by about 50% in both liver and plasma. 
CerS6 KD resulted in lower body weight gain and accompanied by a significant
reduction in whole body fat and fed/fasted blood glucose levels (1% reduction in 
HbA1c). Moreover, ASO-mediated CerS6 KD significantly improved oral glucose
tolerance (during oGTT) and mice displayed improved insulin sensitivity. Thus,
CerS6 appear to play an important role in the development of obesity and insulin 
resistance.
CONCLUSIONS: Our investigations identified specific and selective therapeutic
valid ASO for CerS6 ablation in in-vivo. CerS6 should specifically be targeted
for the reduction of C16:0 ceramides, that results in amelioration of insulin
resistance, hyperglycemia and obesity. CerS6 mediated C16:0 ceramide reduction
could be a potentially attractive target for the treatment of insulin resistance,
obesity and type 2 diabetes.
EOF
Skeletal muscle performs 80% of the glucose metabolism in the body. Improvement
of insulin resistance and prevention of diabetes by habitual exercise is
considered beneficial due to the improved glucose uptake in skeletal muscles.
Investigation of the mechanism by which skeletal muscles regulate glucose uptake 
can contribute to the prevention and treatment of diabetes. Myokines are a kind
of cytokine secreted from skeletal muscle, which are expected to regulate muscle 
metabolism. Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is one such myokine that has been reported to 
improve glucose metabolism in vitro, although the mechanism remains unclear. In
this study, we examined the glucose metabolism of skeletal muscle-specific IL-15 
transgenic mice (IL-15TG), and investigated how IL-15 affects glucose metabolism 
in skeletal muscles. Although High Fat Diet-fed IL-15TG did not exhibit obvious
difference in intraperitoneal insulin tolerance test, they had less impaired
glucose tolerance compared to wild-type C57BL/6. Phosphorylation of AMP-activated
protein kinase (AMPK), Akt substrate of 160 kDa (AS160), tre-2/USP6, BUB2, and
cdc16 domain family member 1 (TBC1D1), and translocation of Glucose transporter
type 4 (GLUT4) were accelerated in the skeletal muscle of IL-15TG. Our study
demonstrated that overexpression of IL-15 in skeletal muscle improves glucose
metabolism in skeletal muscle via AMPK pathway. We report the first in-vivo study
that describes the signaling pathway of IL-15 in muscle glucose metabolism, and
thereby contributes to the elucidation of the regulatory mechanism of muscle
glucose metabolism by myokines.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Few interventions have shown efficacy to influence key energy balance
behaviors during the preschool years.
OBJECTIVE: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) was used to evaluate the efficacy 
of Food, Fun, and Families (FFF), a 12 week authoritative food parenting
intervention for mothers with low-income levels, to reduce preschool-aged
children's intake of calories from solid fat and added sugar (SoFAS).
METHODS: Mothers were randomly assigned to receive FFF (n = 59) or to a delayed
treatment control (n = 60). The primary outcome was children's daily energy
intake from SoFAS at the end of the 12 week intervention, controlling for
baseline levels, assessed by 24-h dietary recalls. Secondary outcomes included
children's daily energy intake, children's BMI z-scores, and meal observations of
maternal food parenting practices targeted in FFF (e.g. providing guided
choices).
RESULTS: Participating mothers were predominantly African American (91%), with
39% educated beyond high school and 66% unemployed. Baseline demographics and
child SoFAS intakes did not differ by group. Lost to follow-up was 13% and did
not differ between groups. At post-intervention, FFF children consumed ~ 94 kcal 
or 23% less daily energy from SoFAS than children in the control group, adjusting
for baseline levels (307.8 (95%CI = 274.1, 341.5) kcal vs. 401.9 (95%CI = 369.8, 
433.9) kcal, FFF vs. control; p < 0.001). FFF mothers also displayed a greater
number of authoritative parenting practices when observed post-intervention with 
their child at a buffet-style meal (Wilcoxon z = - 2.54, p = 0.012). Neither
child total daily energy intake nor BMI z-scores differed between groups
post-intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings demonstrate the initial efficacy of an authoritative food
parenting intervention for families with low-income to reduce SoFAS intake in
early childhood. Additional research is needed to evaluate longer-term effects on
diet and growth.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Despite inconclusive evidence, the idea that a lack of home food
preparation and skills is a limiting factor in achieving a healthy diet is
widespread. Cooking skills interventions proliferate, and several countries now
mention cooking in their dietary guidelines. The aim of this study was to
determine whether substantial consumption of home-prepared food is necessary for 
high dietary quality by exploring whether individuals can eat healthily while
eating little home-prepared food. The diets of these individuals were
characterised, and socio-demographic characteristics and prevalence of obesity
were also explored.
METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of UK dietary survey data with objectively
measured height and weight and a 4-day food diary for each participant was
conducted. A subsample (N = 1063, aged ≥19 years) with a high dietary quality
(determined using a score derived from the Dietary Approaches to Stopping
Hypertension (DASH) diet) was analysed. Within this, participants were grouped as
either high or low home preparation based on the proportion of energy derived
from home-prepared food. Regression models were used to determine whether and how
those in the high and low home preparation groups differed in terms of
socio-demographic characteristics, DASH score, energy intake, prevalence of
obesity, and dietary composition.
RESULTS: The low home preparation group included 442 participants, while 621
participants were in the high home preparation group. The low home preparation
group were more likely to be older and white, and less likely to have a degree
level education. After adjustment for socio-demographic characteristics, there
were no differences in DASH score, energy intake or obesity prevalence between
the groups. After adjustment, the low home preparation group consumed more fruit 
(30.8 additional g/day, 95% CI 5.5-56.1), more low-fat dairy foods (24.6
additional g/day, 95% CI 1.7-47.5) and less red meat (10.4 fewer g/day, 95% CI
4.3-16.6), but also more sugar (11.6 additional g/day, 95% CI 7.5-15.6) and
sodium (107.8 additional mg/day, 95% CI 13.8-201.8).
CONCLUSION: Home food preparation should not be presented as a prerequisite to a 
high quality diet. The public health community should recognise the existence of 
a set of food practices which allows individuals to achieve a healthy diet with
little contribution from home-prepared food, and make space for it in the design 
of their policies and interventions.
EOF
AIMS: Psychosocial stress is a form of mental stress associated with human
relationships that underlies the pathogenesis of mental disorders such as
depression. Previous studies have suggested that intake of energy-dense foods,
also known as "palatable foods," can relieve psychosocial stress. However, it
remains unclear whether the volume of palatable food affects abnormal behavior
induced by psychosocial stress. In the present study, we aimed to determine
whether levels of high-fat food intake significantly influence psychosocial
stress using the social-defeat stress (SDS) paradigm.
MAIN METHODS: Mice subjected to SDS ate either a high-fat or normal chow diet for
10 days. Behavioral tests were conducted following the completion of the SDS
paradigm. The hypothalamus, liver, and blood were examined post-mortem.
KEY FINDINGS: Mice with sufficient intake of high-fat chow immediately following 
exposure to SDS did not exhibit social avoidance behavior, suggesting that a
high-fat diet may improve social behavior. However, inadequate intake of high-fat
food, which did not alter cholesterol metabolism or
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, was not associated with such
benefits, instead increased anxiety-like behavior.
SIGNIFICANCE: The results of the present study demonstrate that eating a high-fat
diet may attenuate stress, but that this benefit disappears with insufficient
intake of high-fat foods. The benefits of a high-fat diet under SDS may be
related to cholesterol metabolism in the liver.
EOF
Atherosclerosis is caused by various factors, and Glabridin may have protective
effects on the cardiovascular system. The purpose of the present study was to
evaluate the effects of Glabridin on atherosclerosis and evaluate whether
Glabridin attenuates arteriosclerosis and endothelial permeability by suppressing
the myosin light chain (MLC) kinase (MLCK)/phosphorylated (p)-MLC system via the 
mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. Male New Zealand
rabbits were randomly divided into 3 groups: The control group was administered
an ordinary diet, whereas the high fat group and the Glabridin (2 mg/kg/d)
intervention group were administered a high fat diet. Following 12 weeks, the
blood lipid levels of rabbits, the morphological structure of the arterial wall, 
the arterial intimal permeability, the endothelial function and the mRNA levels
of MLCK were measured. Western blot analysis was used to detect the levels of
MLCK, p-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p-extracellular signal regulated kinase
(ERK), and p-p38. The high-fat diet group exhibited significantly increased total
cholesterol and triglycerides, and endothelial dysfunction, which were attenuated
by Glabridin treatment. Notably, the aortic endothelial permeability was
increased in the high-fat diet group but was ameliorated in the Glabridin
treatment group. Hyperlipidemia enhanced the expression of p-MLC and MLCK, which 
were associated with the increased phosphorylation of ERK, p38 and JNK. These
changes were also ameliorated by Glabridin. In conclusion, the results of the
present study suggested that atherosclerosis may be associated with upregulated
MLCK expression and activity, which was downregulated by Glabridin. The mechanism
of action of Glabridin was thought to proceed through modulating MAPK pathway
signal transduction. However, further studies are required to adequately
illuminate the exact regulatory mechanisms involved.
EOF
The high-fat, high-calorie diets of westernized cultures contribute to the global
obesity epidemic, and early life exposure to antibiotics may potentiate those
dietary effects. Previous experiments with mice had shown that sub-therapeutic
antibiotic treatment (STAT)-even restricted to early life-affected the gut
microbiota, altered host metabolism, and increased adiposity throughout the
lifetime of the animals. Here we carried out a large-scale cohousing experiment
to investigate whether cohousing STAT and untreated (Control) mice would transfer
the STAT-perturbed microbiota and transmit its impact on weight. We exposed
pregnant dams and their young offspring to either low-dose penicillin (STAT) or
water (Control) until weaning, and then followed the offspring as they grew and
endured a switch from normal to high-fat diet at week 17 of life. Cohousing,
which started at week 4, rapidly approximated the microbiota within cages,
lowering the weight of STAT mice relative to non-cohoused mice. The effect,
however, varied between cages, and was restricted to the first 16 weeks when diet
consisted of normal chow. Once mice switched to high-fat diet, the microbiota α- 
and β-diversity expanded and the effect of cohousing faded: STAT mice, again,
were heavier than control mice independently of cohousing. Metabolomics revealed 
serum metabolites associated with STAT exposure, but no significant differences
were detected in glucose or insulin tolerance. Our results show that cohousing
can partly ameliorate the impact of STAT on the gut microbiota but not prevent
increased weight with high-fat diet. These observations have implications for
microbiota therapies aimed to resolve the collateral damage of antibiotics and
their load on human obesity.
EOF
Background: Two classes of amine oxidases are found in mammals: those with a
flavin adenine dinucleotide as a cofactor, such as monoamine oxidases (MAO) and
lysine-specific demethylases (LSD), and those with copper as a cofactor,
including copper-containing amine oxidases (AOC) and lysyl oxidases (LOX). All
are expressed in adipose tissue, including a semicarbazide-sensitive amine
oxidase/vascular adhesion protein-1 (SSAO/VAP-1) strongly present on the
adipocyte surface. Methods: Previously, irreversible MAO inhibitors have been
reported to limit food intake and/or fat extension in rodents; however, their use
for the treatment of depressed patients has not revealed a clear anti-obesity
action. Semicarbazide and other molecules inhibiting SSAO/VAP-1 also reduce
adiposity in obese rodents. Results: Recently, a LOX inhibitor and a
subtype-selective MAO inhibitor have been shown to limit fattening in high-fat
diet-fed rats. Phenelzine, which inhibits MAO and AOC, limits adipogenesis in
cultured preadipocytes and impairs lipogenesis in mature adipocytes. When tested 
in rats or mice, phenelzine reduces food intake and/or fat accumulation without
cardiac adverse effects. Novel amine oxidase inhibitors have been recently
characterized in a quest for promising anti-inflammatory or anti-cancer
approaches; however, their capacity to mitigate obesity has not been studied so
far. Conclusions: The present review of the diverse effects of amine oxidase
inhibitors impairing adipocyte differentiation or limiting excessive fat
accumulation indicates that further studies are needed to reveal their potential 
anti-obesity properties.
EOF
The farnesoid-X-receptor (FXR) protects against inflammation and cancer of the
colon through maintenance of intestinal bile acid (BA) homeostasis. Conversely,
higher levels of BA and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) are risk factors for
inflammation and cancer of the colon. In the United States, n-6 linoleic acid
(LA) is the most commonly used dietary vegetable fat. Metabolism of n-6 fatty
acids has been linked to a higher risk of intestinal cancer. The objectives of
this study were to investigate in colonic mucosa the effects of a high-fat diet
rich in LA (n-6HFD) on CpG methylation of Fxr and prostaglandin-endoperoxide
synthase-2 (Ptsg-2) genes, and the impact on the expression of tumor suppressor
adenomatous polyposis Coli (Apc) and proliferative cyclin D1 (Ccnd1) genes.
Weaned C57BL/6J male mice were fed for 6 weeks either an n-6HFD containing 44%
energy (44%E) from 22% safflower oil (SO, 76% LA by weight) or a 13% energy
(13%E) control diet (Control) from SO (5% by weight). Mice fed the n-6HFD had
reduced (60%) Fxr promoter CpG methylation and increased (~50%) Fxr mRNA. The
expression of FXR-target ileal bile acid-binding protein (Ibabp), small
heterodimer protein (Shp), and anti-inflammatory peroxisome
proliferator-activated-γ1 genes was increased. The n-6HFD reduced Ptgs-2 CpG
methylation, increased the expression of Cox-2, and increased Apc CpG methylation
in colonic mucosa. Accordingly, reduced expression of Apc was coupled to
accumulation of c-JUN and Ccnd1, respectively cofactor and gene targets for the
β-catenin/Wnt signaling pathway. Finally, the n-6HFD reduced the expression of
histone deacetylase-1 while favoring the accumulation of acetylated histone 3. We
conclude that an n-6HFD epigenetically modifies Fxr, leading to the activation of
downstream factors that participate in BA homeostasis. However, epigenetic
activation of Ptsg-2 coupled with silencing of Apc and accumulation of C-JUN and 
Ccnd1 may increase the risk of inflammation and cancer of the colon.
EOF
Maternal obesity during pregnancy increases risk for neurodevelopmental disorders
in offspring, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Epigenetic
deregulation associates with many neurodevelopmental disorders, and recent
evidence indicates that maternal nutritional status can alter chromatin marks in 
the offspring brain. Thus, maternal obesity may disrupt epigenetic regulation of 
gene expression during offspring neurodevelopment. Using a C57BL/6 mouse model,
we investigated whether maternal high fat diet (mHFD)-induced obesity alters the 
expression of genes previously implicated in the etiology of neurodevelopmental
disorders within the Gestational Day 17.5 (GD 17.5) offspring hippocampus. We
found significant two-fold upregulation of oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) mRNA in the
hippocampus of male, but not female, GD 17.5 offspring from mHFD-induced obese
dams (p < 0.05). To determine whether altered histone binding at the Oxtr gene
promoter may underpin these transcriptional changes, we then performed chromatin 
immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Consistent with the Oxtr transcriptional changes, we 
observed increased binding of active histone mark H3K9Ac at the Oxtr
transcriptional start site (TSS) in the hippocampus of mHFD male (p < 0.05), but 
not female, offspring. Together, these data indicate an increased vulnerability
of male offspring to maternal obesity-induced changes in chromatin remodeling
processes that regulate gene expression in the developing hippocampus, and
contributes to our understanding of how early life nutrition affects the
offspring brain epigenome.
EOF
The gluten-free diet (GFD) is currently the only effective treatment in remitting
the symptoms of coeliac disease (CD), a chronic systemic autoimmune disorder
caused by a permanent intolerance to gluten proteins in genetically susceptible
individuals. The diet entails the substitution of gluten-containing products with
gluten-free-rendered products. However, over recent decades the nutritional
profile of gluten-free (GF) food products has been increasingly questioned within
the scientific community. The aim of this paper is to review the nutritional
profile of gluten-free-rendered products currently available on the market, and
discuss the possible relationship thereof with the nutritional status of coeliac 
patients on a GFD. Key inadequacies of currently available GF products are low
protein content and a high fat and salt content. More adequate levels of dietary 
fiber and sugar than in the past have been reported. Population studies confirmed
the above mentioned inadequacies. Further efforts are required to conceive
adoptable interventions for product development and reformulation in order to
achieve compliance with nutritional recommendations.
EOF
BACKGROUND: High-mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1) is known to have
proinflammatory properties; however, the mechanisms by which HMGB1 influences
immune responses during atherosclerosis (AS) development are not well understood.
Thus, this study investigated the relationship between HMGB1 and vascular
inflammation in Apoe-/- mice and whether glycyrrhizin (GLY), a small inhibitor of
HMGB1, could have atheroprotective effects in AS.
METHODS: Apoe-/- mice on a high-fat diet were treated with GLY (50 mg/kg) or
vehicle by gavage once daily for 12 weeks, respectively.
RESULTS: The GLY group exhibited significantly decreased serum lipid levels,
atherosclerotic plaque deposition, and serum HMGB1 levels, as well as an
increased Treg/Th17 ratio. The GLY group displayed increased interleukin-10
(IL-10) and IL-2 expression and decreased IL-17A and IL-6 expression.
Furthermore, the GA treatment significantly reduced STAT3 phosphorylation in Th17
cells and increased STAT5 phosphorylation in Treg cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that the attenuation of atherosclerotic
lesions in Apoe-/- mice by GLY might be associated with the amelioration of lipid
metabolism abnormalities, inhibition of HMGB1 expression, and alterations in the 
Treg/Th17 ratio.
EOF
Dietary fibers have gained renewed interest in companion animal nutrition as a
means to manage pet obesity and improve gut and host health. Soybean hulls (SBH),
a co-product of the soybean oil extraction process, is an accessible and
economical fiber source. However, limited research is available on the use of SBH
in feline nutrition. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine the effects of 
a high SBH inclusion level on daily food intake, apparent total tract (ATT)
macronutrient digestibility, fecal quality, and fecal fermentative end-products
in diets of adult cats. Four diets were formulated with either SBH, beet pulp
(BP), or cellulose (CL) as the main source of dietary fiber, with the control
diet formulated with no added fiber (NF). The fiber treatments were formulated to
achieve approximately 15% total dietary fiber (TDF). Eight adult male cats (mean 
age = 10.5 yr ± 0.1; mean BW = 6.1 ± 0.8 kg) were used in a replicated 4x4 Latin 
square design. Each period consisted of 14 d, with 10 d of diet adaptation
followed by 4 d of total fecal and urine collections. Food was offered twice
daily and cats were fed to maintain body weight. Food intake on a dry matter
basis (DMB) was lower (P < 0.05) in cats fed BP (55.2 g/d) when compared to SBH
(70.8 g/d). As-is fecal output did not differ in cats fed BP or SBH and, when
expressed on a DMB, fecal output did not differ among fiber treatments. The ATT
digestibility of DM, OM, and GE were greater (P < 0.05) in cats fed NF when
compared to those fed BP, CL, or SBH. Cats fed CL had the greatest (P < 0.05) ATT
CP digestibility (88.5%), followed by cats fed NF (84.9) and SBH (81.7%) with the
lowest values (77%) noted for cats fed BP. Acid hydrolyzed fat (AHF)
digestibility was greater for cats fed CL (92.9%) than for cats fed BP (86.9%)
and SBH (88.6%). The TDF ATT digestibility was lowest for cats fed NF and CL (8.5
and 15.1%, respectively), followed by SBH (18.0%), with BP having the highest
digestibility (33.7%). Total short-chain fatty acid concentration was greatest (P
< 0.05) in cats fed BP (699.7 μmole/g) when compared to the other three
treatments, while phenol and indole concentrations did not differ among
treatments. In conclusion, a high inclusion level (15% TDF) of SBH appears
acceptable in diets for adult cats, resulting in no negative effects on daily
food intake, fecal scores, and similar ATT digestibility for most macronutrients 
when compared to BP and CL.
EOF
Background: For low-carbohydrate diets, a public health approach has focused on
the replacement of carbohydrates with unsaturated fats. However, little research 
exists on the impacts of saturated fat intake on the lipid profile in the context
of whole-food-based low-carbohydrate weight-loss diets.
Objectives: The primary aim of this secondary analysis of the DIETFITS weight
loss trial was to evaluate the associations between changes in percentage of
dietary saturated fatty acid intake (%SFA) and changes in low-density
lipoproteins, high-density lipoproteins, and triglyceride concentrations for
those following a healthy low-carbohydrate (HLC) diet. The secondary aim was to
examine these associations specifically for HLC dieters who had the highest
12-month increases in %SFA.
Methods: In the DIETFITS trial, 609 generally healthy adults, aged 18-50 years,
with body mass indices of 28-40 kg/m2 were randomly assigned to a healthy low-fat
(HLF) or HLC diet for 12 months. In this analysis, linear regression, both
without and with adjustment for potential confounders, was used to measure the
association between 12-month change in %SFA and blood lipids in 208 HLC
participants with complete diet and blood lipid data.
Results: Participants consumed an average of 12-18% of calories from SFA. An
increase of %SFA, without significant changes in absolute saturated fat intake,
over 12 months was associated with a statistically significant decrease in
triglycerides in the context of a weight-loss study in which participants
simultaneously decreased carbohydrate intake. The association between increase in
%SFA and decrease in triglycerides was no longer significant when adjusting for
12-month change in carbohydrate intake, suggesting carbohydrate intake may be a
mediator of this relationship.
Conclusions: Those on a low-carbohydrate weight-loss diet who increase their
percentage intake of dietary saturated fat may improve their overall lipid
profile provided they focus on a high-quality diet and lower their intakes of
both calories and refined carbohydrates. This trial was registered at
clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01826591.
EOF
Abelmoschus esculentus (AE) has been used in traditional medicine to ameliorate
hyperglycemia, but its mucilage increased bioassay difficulties. We have obtained
a series of AE subfractions. Among them F1 and F2 regulated dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 (DPP-4) and type 1 glucagon-like peptide receptor (GLP-1R), the
treatment targets for type 2 diabetes. F1, F2 and fraction residues (FR) showed
advantage on different aspects, which attenuates insulin resistance and metabolic
disorder in vivo, and prevents renal-tubular change in vitro. In the present
study, using type 2 diabetes model induced by high fat diet (HFD) and
streptozotocin (STZ), we aim to investigate whether AE prevent diabetic
nephropathy by regulating the putative markers. The results showed that all the
subfractions ameliorated albuminuria and renal hyperfiltration (measured by
creatinine clearance rate; CCr) accompanied with diabetes, while F2 acted most
promptly and consistently. Histologically AE reduced renal tubular change,
fibrosis and fat deposition. F2 and FR exerted significant effects to decrease
DPP-4 while increase GLP-1R. Although all the subfractions were effective to
reduce oxidative stress, only F2 acted on kidneys specifically. In conclusion, we
have demonstrated AE has benefits to regulate DPP-4 and GLP-1R, to reduce
oxidative stress and renal fibrosis, with resultant to improve renal function and
prevent diabetic renal damage. Taken together, F2 could be more promising to be
developed as adjuvant for diabetic nephropathy.
EOF
The desirable distribution of three major nutrients intake to prevent
hypertension is not established. This study is to clarify the relationship
between the prevalence of hypertension and the rate of intake of three major
nutrients. This is a large-scale cross-sectional study. We analyzed Japanese
subjects who had their annual medical examination at St Luke's International
Hospital, Tokyo from January 2004 to June 2010. The amount of three major
nutrients and salt intake were checked by a questionnaire method, and this study 
clarified the relationship between the prevalence of hypertension and the rate of
three major nutrients with adjustment for age, sex, body mass index (BMI),
smoking, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, hyperuricemia, and salt intake. We
analyzed 89,851 subjects. Of those, the number of hypertensive subjects was
13,926 (15.5%). The hypertensive group had significantly higher rate of calories 
from protein (19.7% vs. 19.4%, P < 0.001) but lower rate of calories from fat
(16.1% vs. 16.4%, P < 0.001) than that in the non-hypertensive group. The rate of
calories from carbohydrate was almost the same between the two groups (64.2% vs. 
64.2%). After multiple adjustments, high rate of calories from protein was
associated with high prevalence of hypertension (odds ratio: 1.011, 95%
confidence interval (CI), 1.005-1.017), as well as aging, male, high BMI, smoking
habits, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and hyperuricemia. High rate of calories
from protein could be associated with high risk of hypertension. Therefore,
protein-restricted diet may have a favorable effect in preventing hypertension
and cardiovascular diseases.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Translin knockout (KO) mice display robust adiposity. Recent studies
indicate that translin and its partner protein, trax, regulate the microRNA and
ATM kinase signaling pathways, both of which have been implicated in regulating
metabolism. In the course of characterizing the metabolic profile of these mice, 
we found that they display normal glucose tolerance despite their elevated
adiposity. Accordingly, we investigated why translin KO mice display this
paradoxical phenotype.
METHODS: To help distinguish between the metabolic effects of increased adiposity
and those of translin deletion per se, we compared three groups: (1) wild-type
(WT), (2) translin KO mice on a standard chow diet, and (3) adiposity-matched WT 
mice that were placed on a high-fat diet until they matched translin KO adiposity
levels. All groups were scanned to determine their body composition and tested to
evaluate their glucose and insulin tolerance. Plasma, hepatic, and adipose tissue
samples were collected and used for histological and molecular analyses.
RESULTS: Translin KO mice show normal glucose tolerance whereas adiposity-matched
WT mice, placed on a high-fat diet, do not. In addition, translin KO mice display
prominent hepatic steatosis that is more severe than that of adiposity-matched WT
mice. Unlike adiposity-matched WT mice, translin KO mice display three key
features that have been shown to reduce susceptibility to insulin resistance:
increased accumulation of subcutaneous fat, increased levels of circulating
adiponectin, and decreased Tnfα expression in hepatic and adipose tissue.
CONCLUSIONS: The ability of translin KO mice to retain normal glucose tolerance
in the face of marked adipose tissue expansion may be due to the three protective
factors noted above. Further studies aimed at defining the molecular bases for
this combination of protective phenotypes may yield new approaches to limit the
adverse metabolic consequences of obesity.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in
western countries, with a continuously rising incidence. Gut-liver communication 
and microbiota composition have been identified as critical drivers of the NAFLD 
progression. Hence, it has been shown that microbiota depletion can ameliorate
high-fat diet or western-diet induced experimental Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH). However, its functional implications in the methionine-choline dietary
model, remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the physiological
relevance of gut microbiota in methionine-choline deficient (MCD) diet induced
NASH. Experimental liver disease was induced by 8 weeks of MCD feeding in
wild-type (WT) mice, either with or without commensal microbiota depletion, by
continuous broad-spectrum antibiotic (AB) treatment. MCD diet induced
steatohepatitis was accompanied by a reduced gut microbiota diversity, indicating
intestinal dysbiosis. MCD treatment prompted macroscopic shortening of the
intestine, as well as intestinal villi in histology. However, gut microbiota
composition of MCD-treated mice, neither resembled human NASH, nor did it augment
the intestinal barrier integrity or intestinal inflammation. In the MCD model, AB
treatment resulted in increased steatohepatitis activity, compared to microbiota 
proficient control mice. This phenotype was driven by pronounced neutrophil
infiltration, while AB treatment only slightly increased monocyte-derived
macrophages (MoMF) abundance. Our data demonstrated the differential role of gut 
microbiota, during steatohepatitis development. In the context of MCD induced
steatohepatitis, commensal microbiota was found to be hepatoprotective.
EOF
CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is
characterized by clinical features that typically develop in childhood and
resemble some features of accelerated aging. Children with HGPS usually appear
normal at birth. Profound failure to thrive occurs during the first year.
Characteristic facial features include head that is disproportionately large for 
the face, narrow nasal ridge, narrow nasal tip, thin vermilion of the upper and
lower lips, small mouth, and retro- and micrognathia. Common features include
loss of subcutaneous fat, delayed eruption and loss of primary teeth, abnormal
skin with small outpouchings over the abdomen and upper thighs, alopecia, nail
dystrophy, coxa valga, and progressive joint contractures. Later findings include
low-frequency conductive hearing loss, dental crowding, and partial lack of
secondary tooth eruption. Motor and mental development is normal. Death occurs as
a result of complications of severe atherosclerosis, either cardiac disease
(myocardial infarction or heart failure) or cerebrovascular disease (stroke),
generally between ages six and 20 years. Average life span is approximately 14.5 
years.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of classic or nonclassic genotype HGPS is
established in a proband with characteristic clinical features, along with
identification of a heterozygous pathogenic variant in LMNA that results in
production of the abnormal lamin A protein, progerin. Individuals with classic
genotype HGPS are heterozygous for pathogenic variant c.1824C>T (~90% of
individuals with HGPS). Individuals with nonclassic genotype HGPS have the
characteristic clinical features of HGPS and are heterozygous for another LMNA
pathogenic variant in exon 11 or intron 11 that results in production of progerin
(~10% of individuals with HGPS).
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: A regular diet with frequent small meals
is recommended. Primary tooth extractions after the secondary tooth has erupted
and/or fully descended may be required to avoid dental crowding. Use of sunscreen
on all exposed areas of skin, including the head, is recommended for outdoor
activities. Hip dislocation is best managed with physical therapy and body
bracing; reconstructive hip surgery is possible, but comorbidities of surgery in 
this high-risk population should be considered. Shoe pads are recommended, as
lack of body fat leads to foot discomfort. Routine physical and occupational
therapy, active stretching and strengthening exercises, and hydrotherapy are
recommended. Maintain optimal hydration, while encouraging physical activity, to 
minimize stroke risk. Anticoagulation as needed for cardiovascular and
neurovascular complications. Medication dosages are based on body weight or body 
surface area, not age. Nitroglycerin can be beneficial for angina; anticongestive
therapy is routine for the treatment of congestive heart failure. General
anesthesia and intubation should be performed with extreme caution, ideally with 
fiberoptic intubation, if possible. Exposure keratopathy can be treated with
ocular lubrication. Hearing aids can be used when clinically necessary.
Age-appropriate schooling with adaptations for physical needs is usually
recommended. Prevention of secondary complications: Low-dose aspirin (2-3 mg/kg
body weight) is recommended for prevention of cardiovascular and stroke
complications. Because the stiffened peripheral vasculature may be less tolerant 
to dehydration, maintaining optimal hydration orally is recommended.
Surveillance: Annual or semiannual electrocardiogram (ECG), annual
echocardiogram, carotid duplex ultrasound examination, neurologic examination,
MRI/MRA of the head and neck, lipid profile, dental examination, hip x-ray to
evaluate for avascular necrosis and progressing coxa valga, dual x-ray
absorptiometry and/or peripheral cutaneous computed tomography to measure bone
density, physical therapy assessment for joint contractures, ophthalmology
examination, audiometry, and assessment of activities of daily living.
Agents/circumstances to avoid: Dehydration; large crowds with taller/larger peers
because of the risk of injury, trampolines and bouncy houses due to risk of hip
dislocation. Physical activity should be self-limited.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Almost all individuals with HGPS have the disorder as the
result of a de novo autosomal dominant pathogenic variant. Recurrence risk to the
sibs of a proband is small (as HGPS is typically caused by a de novo pathogenic
variant) but greater than that of the general population because of the
possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Once the LMNA pathogenic variant has 
been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at
increased risk is possible.
EOF
Importance: Schizophrenia is associated with a reduced life expectancy of 15 to
20 years owing to a high prevalence of cardiometabolic disorders. Obesity, a key 
risk factor for the development of cardiometabolic alterations, is more prevalent
in individuals with schizophrenia. Although obesity is linked to the altered
reward processing of food cues, no studies have investigated this link in
schizophrenia without the confounds of antipsychotics and illness chronicity.
Objective: To investigate neural responsivity to food cues in first-episode
psychosis without the confounds of antipsychotic medication or illness
chronicity.
Design, Setting, and Participants: A case-control study was conducted from
January 31, 2015, to September 30, 2018, in London, United Kingdom, of 29
patients with first-episode psychosis who were not taking antipsychotic
medication and 28 matched controls.
Main Outcomes and Measures: Participants completed a food cue paradigm while
undergoing a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan. Neural activation was
indexed using the blood oxygen level-dependent hemodynamic response. The Dietary 
Instrument for Nutrition Education was used to measure diet, and the
International Physical Activity Questionnaire was used to measure exercise.
Results: There were no significant differences in age, sex, or body mass index
between the 29 patients (25 men and 4 women; mean [SD] age, 26.1 [4.8] years) and
28 controls (22 men and 6 women; mean [SD] age, 26.4 [5.5] years). Relative to
controls, patients consumed more saturated fat (t46 = -3.046; P = .004) and
undertook less high-intensity (U = 304.0; P = .01) and low-intensity (U = 299.5; 
P = .005) weekly exercise. There were no group differences in neural responses to
food vs nonfood cues in whole-brain or region-of-interest analyses of the nucleus
accumbens, insula, or hypothalamus. Body mass index was inversely correlated with
the mean blood oxygen level-dependent signal in the nucleus accumbens in response
to food vs nonfood cues in controls (R = -0.499; P = .01) but not patients
(R = 0.082; P = .70).
Conclusions and Relevance: Relative to controls, patients with first-episode
psychosis who were not taking antipsychotic medication consumed more saturated
fat and showed an altered association between body mass index and neural response
to food cues in the absence of differences in neural responses to food cues.
These findings highlight how maladaptive eating patterns and alterations in the
association between body mass index and neural responses to food cues are
established early in the course of schizophrenia.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) clusters cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors,
along with hypogonadism (HG) and erectile dysfunction (ED). Lifestyle
modifications including physical exercise (PhyEx) are well-known treatments for
this condition. In this study, we analyzed the effect of PhyEx on
hypothalamus-pituitary-testis axis and erectile function using an animal MetS
model, previously established in rabbits fed a high fat diet (HFD). Rabbits fed a
regular diet (RD) were used as controls. A subset of both groups was trained on a
treadmill. HFD rabbits showed typical MetS features including HG (reduced T and
LH) and impairment of erectile function. PhyEx in HFD rabbits completely restored
plasma T and LH and the penile alterations. At testicular and hypothalamic
levels, an HFD-induced inflammatory status was accompanied by reduced T synthesis
and GnRH immunopositivity, respectively. In the testis, PhyEx normalized
HFD-related macrophage infiltration and increased the expression of steroidogenic
enzymes and T synthesis. In the hypothalamus, PhyEx normalized HFD-induced gene
expression changes related to inflammation and glucose metabolism, restored GnRH 
expression, particularly doubling mRNA levels, and regulated expression of
molecules related to GnRH release (kisspeptin, dynorphin). Concerning MetS
components, PhyEx significantly reduced circulating cholesterol and visceral fat.
In multivariate analyses, cholesterol levels resulted the main factor associated 
with MetS-related alterations in penile, testicular and hypothalamic districts.
In conclusion, our results show that PhyEx may rescue erectile function, exert
anti-inflammatory effects on hypothalamus and testis, and increase LH levels and 
T production, thus supporting a primary role for lifestyle modification to combat
MetS-associated HG and ED.
EOF
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-9 has been associated with insulin resistance
and type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, methods for delivering exogenous BMP-9
genes in vivo are lacking. In this study, we developed a gene delivery system
using polyethyleneimine (PEI)-based core-shell nanoparticles (PCNs) as gene
delivery carriers, and investigated the effectiveness and safety for delivery of 
the shBMP-9 gene. PCNs possessed a well-defined core-shell nanostructure with
hydrophobic polymer cores and dense PEI shells of uniform particle size and
highly positively charged surfaces. In vitro evaluation suggested that PCNs had
high loading capacity for exogenous genes and low cytotoxicity toward
hepatocytes. The transfection efficiency of PCNs/pENTR-shBMP9 complexes was
higher than that of commercial lipofectamine 2000/shBMP9. In vivo studies showed 
that PCNs/pENTR-shBMP9 transfection led to a significant decrease in hepatic BMP9
expression compared with pENTR-shBMP9 transfection. Under high fat diet (HFD)
feeding, PCNs/pENTR-shBMP9 mice exhibited aggravated glucose and insulin
tolerance. At a molecular level, PCNs/pENTR-shBMP9 mice displayed elevated PEPCK 
protein levels and lower levels of InsR and Akt phosphorylation than pENTR-shBMP9
mice. These results suggest that the biological effects of PCNs/pENTR-shBMP9 in
vivo are much more effective than those of pENTR-shBMP9. Therefore, the
polyethyleneimine (PEI)-based core-shell nanoparticle can be applied as promising
nanocarriers for effective and safe gene delivery.
EOF
Alogliptin is a commonly prescribed drug treating patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Here, we show that long-term intervention with alogliptin (0.03% w/w in diet)
improves survival and health of mice on a high-fat diet. Alogliptin intervention 
takes beneficial effects associated with longevity, including increased insulin
sensitivity, attenuated functionality decline, decreased organ pathology,
preserved mitochondrial function, and reduced oxidative stress. Autophagy
activation is proposed as an underlying mechanism of these beneficial effects. We
conclude that alogliptin intervention could be considered as a potential strategy
for extending lifespan and healthspan in obesity and overweight.
EOF
Obesity is a primary risk factor for osteoarthritis, and previous studies have
shown that dietary content may play an important role in osteoarthritis
pathogenesis of cartilage and bone in the knee. Several previous studies have
shown that the ratio of ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), ω-6 PUFAs, and
saturated fatty acids can significantly influence bone structure and
osteoarthritis (OA) progression. However, the influence of obesity or dietary
fatty acid content on shoulder OA is not well understood. The goal of this study 
was to investigate the role of dietary fatty acid content on bone and cartilage
structure in the mouse shoulder in a model of diet-induced obesity. For 24 weeks,
mice were fed control or high-fat diets supplemented with ω-3 PUFAs, ω-6 PUFAs,
or saturated fatty acids. The humeral heads were analyzed for bone morphometry
and mineral density by microCT. Cartilage structure and joint synovitis were
determined by histological grading, and microscale mechanical properties of the
cartilage extracellular and pericellular matrices were quantified using atomic
force microscopy. Diet-induced obesity significantly altered bone morphology and 
mineral density in a manner that was dependent on dietary free fatty acid
content. In general, high-fat diet groups showed decreased bone quality, with the
ω-3 diet being partially protective. Cartilage mechanical properties and OA
scores showed no changes with obesity or diet. These findings are consistent with
clinical literature showing little if any relationship between obesity and
shoulder osteoarthritis (unlike knee osteoarthritis), but suggest that
diet-induced obesity may influence other joint tissues. This article is protected
by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Supplementation of cholate to a high fat diet can protect mice from diet-induced,
increased body mass gain. It has been hypothesized that uncoupling protein 1
dependent, non-shivering thermogenesis in brown adipocytes provides the mechanism
of increased energy expenditure to counteract excessive energy intake. We
scrutinized this conjecture in wildtype mice and mice genetically devoid of a
functional uncoupling protein 1 gene (C57BL/6J) as well as mice of the
129S6/SvEvTac strain that, in comparison, display an extraordinary capacity to
recruit ectopic brown adipocytes. Protection from diet-induced, increased body
mass gain by cholate supplementation was absent in 129S6/SvEvTac mice, a
consequence of much lower bile acid absorption and spillover in this strain.
Conversely, Ucp1-KO mice did not differ from C57BL/6J wildtype controls in any
parameter assessed. Daily energy expenditure and resting metabolic rate of
C57BL/6J mice remained unaffected by cholate supplementation. We conclude that
protection of mice from diet-induced, increased body mass gain by cholate
supplementation depends on the specific genetic background of C57BL/6J mice, does
not involve increased energy expenditure and is independent of uncoupling protein
1 dependent non-shivering thermogenesis.
EOF
Alcohol and high-fat diet are two major risk factors responsible for metabolic
diseases, which are manifested as steatohepatitis and liver cancer in the liver, 
and chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in the pancreas.
These metabolic diseases are becoming increasingly prevalent around the globe,
and more importantly, their two major etiologies commonly coexist to precipitate 
the disease processes. To highlight the importance of these metabolic diseases,
Japanese Society of Gastroenterology (JSGE) and National Institute on Alcoholism 
and Alcohol Abuse of National Institute of Health cosponsored the JSGE's 7th
International Forum jointly held with the 12th International Symposium on ALPD
and Cirrhosis. Toward the main theme of "Frontiers in ASH, NASH, NBNC-HCC and
PDAC", this platform showcased presentations by 12 invited international and
Japanese speakers on brain-gut-liver interactions, emerging mechanisms of ASH and
NASH, metabolic reprogramming, and new therapeutic targets for cirrhosis, HCC,
and PDAC. This editorial discusses the most recent data on global statistics on
how alcohol and obesity impact health and longevity as a prelude to a brief
summary of the symposium presentations and discussions, primarily focusing on the
first two session themes.
EOF
Mulberry is known to have pharmacological effects against cholesterol, obesity,
and dyslipidemia. Many studies have revealed that mulberry leaf possesses
hepatoprotective properties against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD);
however, mulberry fruit is less studied in this context. Therefore, this study
aimed to investigate the preventive effects of mulberry fruit against high fat
diet- (HFD-) induced NAFLD. To evaluate the effects of mulberry fruit on NAFLD,
two doses of mulberry fruit ethanol extracts [MB, 100, and 200 mg/kg BW (body
weight)] were given to HFD-fed rats for 10 weeks. MB dramatically prevented liver
damage as shown by biochemical analysis of the liver injury markers, alanine
transaminase, and aspartate transaminase. MB treatment significantly inhibited
the increased levels of total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, and low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol but restored the level of high-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol in HFD-fed rats. Notably, histological analysis of liver 
tissues demonstrated that MB substantially ameliorated lipid accumulation.
Expression of cholesterol-regulating genes was also suppressed by MB treatment.
For its underlying mechanisms, MB suppressed hepatic reactive oxygen species
(ROS) overproduction and mitochondrial oxidative stress in HFD-fed rats. MB
potentially protects liver tissue against NAFLD by inhibition of mitochondrial
oxidative stress, suggesting its possible use as a therapeutic agent for
treatment of NAFLD.
EOF
Heterotrigona itama is a common stingless bee species found in Southeast Asia.
Studies on the health benefits of its honey are limited in comparison with other 
stingless bee species. This study examines the antiobesity benefits found in
stingless bee honey (SBH) from H. itama. The parameters used to measure the
benefits were weight change, morphological structures, and biochemical
characteristics. The research was conducted by using rats that were given a
high-fat diet (HFD). In total 48 male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were given a
formulated HFD to increase the levels of obesity, the HFD was administered with a
value of 0.68 g/cm2. The duration of the treatment was six weeks, and the results
show that the induction obesity using the HFD was successful. Following this, the
rats were then treated with SBH (at dosages of 1000 mg/kg, 750 mg/kg or
500 mg/kg), with orlistat or with a placebo. Compared with typical obesity
treatment methods, the one that used the three dosages of SBH showed a higher
reduction in body mass index (BMI), percentage of body weight gain, adiposity
index, and relative organ weight (ROW). The levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST,
and ALP) were also significantly lower in SBH-treated groups. The levels of
triglycerides and LDL-cholesterol were significantly lower, while the level of
HDL-cholesterol was significantly higher in comparison with the control obese
group. In terms of morphological structures, the number of adipocyte cells was
reduced, and the hepatocytes found in the liver were less prone to rupturing when
treated with SBH. In conclusion, the administration of SBH led to an improvement 
in indicators associated with obesity reduction. SBH also possesses a
hepatoprotective potential which can reduce the health risks related to obesity.
EOF
Obesity is strongly correlated with lipotoxic cardiomyopathy, heart failure and
thus mortality. The incidence of obesity has reached alarming proportions
worldwide, and increasing evidence suggests that the parents' nutritional status 
may predispose their offspring to lipotoxic cardiomyopathy. However, to date,
mechanisms underlying intergenerational heart disease risks have yet to be
elucidated. Here we report that cardiac dysfunction induced by high-fat-diet
(HFD) persists for two subsequent generations in Drosophila and is associated
with reduced expression of two key metabolic regulators, adipose triglyceride
lipase (ATGL/bmm) and transcriptional cofactor PGC-1. We provide evidence that
targeted expression of ATGL/bmm in the offspring of HFD-fed parents protects
them, and the subsequent generation, from cardio-lipotoxicity. Furthermore, we
find that intergenerational inheritance of lipotoxic cardiomyopathy correlates
with elevated systemic H3K27 trimethylation. Lowering H3K27 trimethylation
genetically or pharmacologically in the offspring of HFD-fed parents prevents
cardiac pathology. This suggests that metabolic homeostasis is epigenetically
regulated across generations.
EOF
One of the main complications associated to obesity is insulin resistance and an 
altered glucose and lipid metabolism within the liver. It has been previously
described that insulin receptor isoform A (IRA) favors glucose uptake and
glycogen storage in hepatocytes as compared to isoform B (IRB) improving glucose 
homeostasis in mice lacking liver insulin receptor. Thus, we hypothesized that
IRA could also improve glucose and lipid metabolism in a mouse model of high fat 
diet-induced obesity. We addressed the role of insulin receptor isoforms on
glucose and lipid metabolism in vivo We expressed IRA or IRB specifically in the 
liver by using adeno-associated viruses (AAV) in a mouse model of diet-induced
insulin resistance and obesity. IRA expression, but not IRB, induced an increased
glucose uptake in the liver and muscle improving insulin tolerance. Regarding
lipid metabolism, we found that AAV-mediated IRA expression also ameliorated
hepatic steatosis by decreasing the expression of Fasn, Pgc1a, Acaca and Dgat2
and increasing Scd-1 Taking together, our results further unravel the role of
insulin receptor isoforms in hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism in an
insulin-resistant scenario. Our data strongly suggest that IRA is more efficient 
than IRB favoring hepatic glucose uptake, improving insulin tolerance and
ameliorating hepatic steatosis. Therefore, we conclude that a gene therapy
approach for hepatic IRA expression could be a safe and promising tool for the
regulation of hepatic glucose consumption and lipid metabolism, two key processes
in the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) associated to
obesity.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Numerous reports showed inhibition of carcinogenesis after metformin
(MF) and melatonin (MEL) administration. However, most in vivo studies used
standard diet type, with relatively low fat content. As increase in fat intake
may have a considerable impact on malignant transformation, we evaluated the
effects of these two substances in a model of mammary carcinogenesis in rats fed 
a high-fat diet (10%).
METHODS: Mammary tumors were induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (NMU) in female
rats of sensitive Sprague-Dawley strain. MF was administered in a diet (0.2%),
MEL was administered in drinking water (20 mg/L). The chemoprevention was
initiated 12 days prior to tumor initiation, both substances were administered
through the termination of the experiment on 16th week after carcinogen
application. Analysis of basic parameters of tumor growth, histopathological
profile, and serum IGF-1 level were performed together with immunohistochemical
detection of Ki67 (proliferation marker) and caspase-3 and BCL-2 (apoptosis
markers) in mammary cancer cells.
RESULTS: Although neither tumor incidence nor frequency were changed after MF
and/or MEL administration, MF and MEL decreased high-grade/low-grade (HG/LG)
tumor ratio. MEL decreased proliferation in mammary cancer cells; positive
correlations between histological grade and Ki67 expressions were found after
single administration of both MF and MEL. Serum IGF-1 levels were reduced to the 
level of intact rats in all groups receiving chemoprevention.
CONCLUSIONS: MF and MEL administration did not inhibit growth of NMU-induced
mammary tumors in rats in a significant manner but both substances ameliorated
tumor histopathological profile. Surprisingly, combined treatment had no such
effect.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Renal transplantation is increasingly associated with the presence of
comorbidity factors such as dyslipidemia which could influence the graft outcome.
We hypothesized that hypercholesterolemia could affect vascular repair processes 
and promote post-transplant renal vascular remodeling through the over-expression
of the anti-angiogenic thrombospondin-1 interacting with vascular endothelial
growth factor-A levels.
METHODS: We tested this hypothesis in vitro, in vivo and in a human cohort using 
(1) endothelial cells; (2) kidney auto-transplanted pig subjected (n = 5) or not 
(n = 6) to a diet enriched in cholesterol and (3) a renal transplanted patient
cohort (16 patients).
RESULTS: Cells exposed to oxidized LDL showed reduced proliferation and an
increased expression of thrombospondin-1. In pigs, 3 months after transplantation
of kidney grafts, we observed a deregulation of the hypoxia inducible factor
1a-vascular endothelial growth factor-A axis induced in cholesterol-enriched diet
animals concomitant with an overexpression of thrombospondin-1 and a decrease in 
cortical microvessel density promoting vascular remodeling. In patients,
hypercholesterolemia was associated with decreased vascular endothelial growth
factor-A plasma levels during early follow up after renal transplantation and
increased chronic graft dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support a potential mechanism through which a high
fat-diet impedes vascular repair in kidney graft and suggest the value of
controlling cholesterolemia in recipient even at the early stage of renal
transplantation.
EOF
Aged black garlic (ABG) is a functional food with antioxidant and
anti-inflammatory properties. Recent studies also report its beneficial metabolic
effects in a context of obesity or diabetes, although the mechanisms involved are
poorly understood. The aim of this work was to analyze the effects of an ABG
extract in the vascular and metabolic alterations induced by a high-fat/sucrose
diet in rats. For this purpose, male Sprague⁻Dawley rats were fed either a
standard chow (controls; n = 12) or a high-fat/sucrose diet (HFD; n = 24) for 16 
weeks. From week 8 on, half of the HFD rats were treated with a commercial ABG
extract concentrated in S-allyl cysteine and melanoidins (ABG10+®; 250 mg/kg
daily by gavage; 5 mL/kg). ABG10+®-treated rats showed lower mean caloric intake,
body weight, triglycerides, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), insulin 
and leptin serum concentrations and higher high density lipoprotein cholesterol
(HDL-c) and adiponectin serum concentrations than non-treated rats. In the
hypothalamus, ABG10+® treatment induced an increase in the gene expression of
proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and a decrease in leptin receptor (ObR) mRNA levels.
No significant changes were found in visceral adipose tissue except for an
overexpression of β3-adrenergic receptor (β3-ADR) in ABG-treated rats. In
subcutaneous adipose tissue, ABG10+® treatment decreased adipose weight and
downregulated the gene expression of PPAR-γ, LPL, ObR and HSL. In brown adipose
tissue, an overexpression of InsR, GLUT-4, UCP-1 and β3-ADR in ABG10+®-treated
rats was found, whereas PPAR-γ mRNA levels were significantly decreased.
Regarding vascular function, ABG10+® treatment attenuated the obesity-induced
vasoconstriction in response to potassium chloride both in presence/absence of
perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT). On the contrary, aorta segments from
ABG-treated rats showed and improved relaxation in response to acetylcholine only
when PVAT was present, with this fact possible being related to the decreased
gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines in this tissue. In conclusion,
ABG10+® administration partially improves the metabolic and vascular alterations 
induced by a high-fat/high-sucrose diet in rats through modifications in the gene
expression of proteins and neuropeptides involved in inflammation, fat metabolism
and food intake regulation. Further studies are required to assess the
bioavailability of ABG between rats and humans.
EOF
Several studies have indicated that diet and exercise may modulate the gut
microbiota in obese subjects. Both interventions were shown to alter the
microbiota orthogonally. However, this relationship has not been fully explored. 
This study analyzed the effects of low-to-moderate aerobic training on the fecal 
microbiota of mice subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD). Here, 40 male mice
(C57Bl/6) were divided into two groups with standard diet (SD; 12.4% lipid) and
HFD (60.3% lipid) for four months. These groups were divided into four, named SD 
control, HF control, SD trained and HF trained. All animals were submitted to an 
incremental test to estimate low-to-moderate maximum speed. Training consisted of
30 min·day-1, 5 days/week, for 8 weeks. The HFD increased the body weight (p <
0.0001) and adiposity index (p < 0.05). HFD also negatively influenced
performance in exercise training. Moreover, the diversity of gut microbiota was
reduced by the HFD in all groups. A low-to-moderate exercise was ineffective in
modulating the gut microbiota composition in mice subjected to HFD. These
findings suggest that two months of low-to-moderate exercise does not achieve a
preponderant modulatory effect on shaping microbiota when submitted to the
high-fat diet.
EOF
It was previously reported that dietary intake is an important trigger for
systemic inflammation and one of the lifestyle factors for the development of
cardiovascular diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association
between Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII) score and body weight, blood pressure,
lipid profile and leptin in an Indonesian population. This was a cross-sectional 
study conducted in 503 Indonesian adults. The DII score was calculated based on
data of 30 nutrients and food components. Anthropometric profile, blood pressure,
lipid profile, and leptin were measured. The association of these variables with 
the DII score was analyzed. The DII score was not associated with body weight,
body mass index (BMI), body fat, waist circumference, hip circumference, systolic
and diastolic blood pressure, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
(both unadjusted and after adjustment for covariates). However, plasma leptin
concentration was significantly associated with the DII score (B = 0.096, p =
0.020). Plasma leptin also increased significantly across tertiles of the DII
score (ANCOVA, p = 0.031). This positive association between the DII score and
plasma leptin concentration suggests a role for the inflammatory properties of
the diet in regulating adipose tissue inflammation.
EOF
Maternal obesity has been associated with kidney disorders in male offspring. Our
previous studies have demonstrated that Sirtuin (SIRT)1, an essential regulator
of metabolic stress responses, is suppressed in the offspring as the result of
maternal high-fat diet (HFD) consumption, which is likely to underpin the adverse
metabolic and renal outcomes. To examine if SIRT1 overexpression or activation
early in life can protect the offspring kidney, wild-type (WT) and transgenic
(Tg) offspring were born to the same diet-induced obese female C57BL/6 mice
through breeding with hemizygous SIRT1-transgenic (Tg) male mice and examined for
renal pathological changes. In separate experiments, SIRT1 activator SRT1720 (25 
mg/kg/2 days i.p) was administrated in WT offspring over 6 weeks of postnatal
high-fat diet exposure. The results show that offspring born to obese dams have
increased kidney weight, higher levels of renal triglycerides, and increased
expression of oxidative stress, inflammatory, and fibrotic markers, as well as
increased albuminuria compared to offspring of control dams. Both SIRT1
overexpression and SRT1720 treatment attenuated renal lipid contents and
expression of lipogenesis, oxidative stress, and inflammatory markers; however,
fibrosis was modestly reduced and albuminuria was not affected. The findings
suggest that SIRT1 therapy can ameliorate some pathological mechanisms of kidney 
programming due to maternal obesity but may not be sufficient to prevent the
resulting chronic kidney injury.
EOF
Several research teams have focused on finding the "ideal" animal model that
reflects the pathophysiological changes and closely simulates the metabolic
characteristics of patients with type 2 diabetes. However, the multitude of
studies on this topic has resulted in large variations, making the models
difficult to compare, as the measured parameters vary significantly.
Additionally, selecting the appropriate animal model for a new study has become
more difficult due to the increasing number of background variables. This article
gives a detailed overview of the literature, covering the entire range of animal 
models and model characteristics, and most importantly, provides guidance for
selecting the most suitable model for specific research goals in the future.
EOF
Purpose: There is a substantial body of evidence indicating that corneal sensory 
innervation is affected by pathology in a range of diseases. However, there are
no published studies that have directly assessed whether the nerve fiber density 
of the different subpopulations of corneal sensory neurons are differentially
affected. The present study explored the possibility that the intraepithelial
nerve fiber density of corneal polymodal nociceptors and cold thermoreceptors are
differentially affected in mice fed with a high-fat high cholesterol (HFHC; 21%
fat, 2% cholesterol) diet and in those that also have diabetes.
Methods: The mice were fed the HFHC diet for the duration of the experiment (up
to 40 weeks). Mice in the diabetes group had hyperglycaemia induced with
streptozotocin after 15 weeks on the HFHC diet. Age-matched control animals were 
fed a standard diet. All corneal nerve fibers were labeled with a pan neuronal
antibody (antiprotein gene product 9.5), and polymodal nociceptors and cold
thermoreceptors were labeled with antibodies directed against transient receptor 
potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 1 and transient receptor potential 
cation channel subfamily M member 8, respectively.
Results: The mice fed a HFHC diet and those that in addition have hyperglycemia
have similar reductions in corneal nerve fiber density consistent with small
fiber neuropathy. Importantly, both treatments more markedly affected the
intraepithelial axons of cold thermoreceptors than those of polymodal
nociceptors.
Conclusions: The results provide evidence that distinct subpopulations of corneal
sensory neurons can be differentially affected by pathology.
EOF
AIM: Diabetic nephropathy is the commonly developed complication of vasculature
in type 2 diabetic patients. Chronic hyperglycemia leads to nephropathy in
diabetics because of the formation of excessive reactive oxygen species and
advanced glycation end products which is reflected in the form of
glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. As per the various
reports reduction in SIRT1 expression in kidney tissue is key factor in the
development of nephropathy in diabetes because its reduction in tissue is linked 
with excessive formation of ROS. Formononetin is a polyphenolic compound reported
for its effect on SIRT1 and ROS.
MAIN METHODS: Type 2 diabetes was induced in rats by diet modification using high
fat diet for fifteen days prior to streptozotocin regimen (35 mg/kg, ip).
Treatment of formononetin was started after confirmation of diabetes and
continued for 16 weeks. Formononetin was administered orally to the diabetic
animals at the dose of 10. 20 and 40 mg/kg.
KEY FINDINGS: Formononetin treatment for 16 week was able to control
hyperglycemia and insulin resistance in diabetic animals. It has also been
reduced triglyceride and cholesterol in blood. Formononetin treatment reduced
blood concentration of creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and increased albumin
concentration. Formononetin treatment also enhanced creatinine clearance in
diabetic animals. Oxidative stress burden was also reduced significantly after
formononetin treatment along with increased SIRT1 expression in kidney tissues of
diabetic animals.
SIGNIFICANCE: Formononetin is a potential molecule which increases the expression
of SIRT1 in kidney tissue of diabetic. Thus formononetin is an effective molecule
to control nephropathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
EOF
INTRODUCTIONThe late effects of radiation therapy can have significant
consequences for the health and quality of life of long-term cancer survivors.
Radiation induces persistent alterations in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells
(HSPCs) and the bone marrow environment; however, how relevant host factors such 
as obesity and exercise differentially regulate HSPC content and the bone marrow 
environment following radiation exposure remains unknown. The purpose of this
investigation was to evaluate how the combination of obesity and exercise
training modulate HSPCs and their niche following sub-lethal radiation exposure
in mice.METHODSMice fed either a control or high-fat-diet to induce obesity
remained sedentary or underwent a progressive treadmill exercise program. At 13
weeks of age, mice were irradiated (3 Gy), and continued their specific diets and
exercise program for four more weeks.RESULTSExercise trained mice had
significantly higher quantities of several HSPC subpopulations and bone marrow
stromal cell populations, while HSPC subpopulations were significantly lower in
obese mice following radiation. Reactive oxygen species content was significantly
decreased in HSPCs with exercise training. Proteomics analysis of bone marrow
supernatant revealed clustering of biologically relevant changes in exercise
trained mice. Functional evaluation of bone marrow supernatant revealed a
significant increase in leukemia blast viability in obese mice but not in the
exercise trained mice (p<0.05).Together, these data suggest that exercise
training partially restores the negative effects of obesity on HSPCs and their
niche following radiation exposure. As such, exercise training should be
considered to mitigate the late effects of radiation therapy on the hematopoietic
system for cancer survivors with or without obesity who have undergone radiation 
therapy.
EOF
The induction of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) by hyperglycemia
is a key event responsible for endothelial activation and injury. Heat shock
protein 22 (HSP22) is a stress-inducible protein associated with cytoprotection
and apoptosis inhibition. However, whether HSP22 prevents hyperglycemia-induced
vascular endothelial injury remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether HSP22 
protects the vascular endothelium from hyperglycemia-induced injury by reducing
mtROS production. We used a high-fat diet and streptozotocin injection model to
induce type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM, metabolic syndrome) and exposed human
umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to high glucose following
overexpression or silencing of HSP22 to explore the role of HSP22. We found that 
HSP22 markedly inhibited endothelial cell activation and vascular lesions by
inhibiting endothelial adhesion and decreasing cytokine secretion. We performed
confocal microscopy and flow cytometry assays using HUVECs and showed that HSP22 
attenuated mtROS and mitochondrial dysfunction in hyperglycemia-stimulated
endothelial cells. Mechanistically, using the mtROS inhibitor MitoTEMPO, we
demonstrated that HSP22 suppressed endothelial activation and injury by
eliminating hyperglycemia-mediated increases in mtROS. Furthermore, we found that
HSP22 maintained the balance of mitochondrial fusion and fission by mitigating
mtROS in vitro. HSP22 attenuated the development of vascular lesions by
suppressing mtROS-mediated endothelial activation in a T2DM mouse model. This
study provides evidence that HSP22 may be a promising therapeutic target for
vascular complications in T2DM.
EOF
Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) hydrolyzes cholesteryl esters (CE) and triglycerides 
(TG) to generate fatty acids (FA) and cholesterol. LAL deficiency (LAL-D) in both
humans and mice leads to hepatomegaly, hypercholesterolemia, and shortened life
span. Despite its essential role in lysosomal neutral lipid catabolism, the cell 
type-specific contribution of LAL to disease progression is still elusive. To
investigate the role of LAL in the liver in more detail and to exclude the
contribution of LAL in macrophages, we generated hepatocyte-specific
LAL-deficient mice (Liv-Lipa-/-) and fed them either chow or high fat/high
cholesterol diets (HF/HCD). Comparable to systemic LAL-D, Liv-Lipa-/- mice were
resistant to diet-induced obesity independent of food intake, movement, and
energy expenditure. Reduced body weight gain was mainly due to reduced white
adipose tissue depots. Furthermore, Liv-Lipa-/- mice exhibited improved glucose
clearance during glucose and insulin tolerance tests compared to control mice.
Analysis of hepatic lipid content revealed a massive reduction of TG, whereas CE 
concentrations were markedly increased, leading to CE crystal formation in the
livers of Liv-Lipa-/- mice. Elevated plasma transaminase activities, increased
pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines as well as hepatic macrophage
infiltration indicated liver inflammation. Our data provide evidence that
hepatocyte-specific LAL deficiency is sufficient to alter whole-body lipid and
energy homeostasis in mice. We conclude that hepatic LAL plays a pivotal role by 
preventing liver damage and maintaining lipid and energy homeostasis, especially 
during high lipid availability.
EOF
Olfactory receptors are primarily expressed in nasal olfactory epithelium, but
these receptors are also ectopically expressed in diverse tissues. In this study,
we investigated the biological functions of Olfr43, a mouse homolog of human
OR1A1, in cultured hepatocytes and mice to assess its functionality in lipid
metabolism. Olfr43 was expressed in mouse hepatocytes, and Olfr43 activation by a
known ligand, (-)-carvone, stimulated cAMP response element-binding protein
(CREB) activity. In ligand-receptor binding studies using site-directed
mutagenesis, (-)-carvone binding required two residues, M257 and Y258, in Olfr43.
In the mouse study, oral administration of (-)-carvone for 5 weeks in high-fat
diet-fed mice improved energy metabolism, including reductions in hepatic
steatosis and adiposity, and improved glucose and insulin tolerance. In mouse
livers and cultured mouse hepatocytes, Olfr43 activation simulated the CREB-hairy
and enhancer of split 1 (HES1)-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
(PPAR)-γ signaling axis, leading to a reduction in hepatic triglyceride
accumulation in the mouse liver. Thus, long-term administration of (-)-carvone
reduces hepatic steatosis. The knockdown of Olfr43 gene expression in cultured
hepatocytes negated these effects of (-)-carvone. In conclusion, an ectopic
olfactory receptor, hepatic Olfr43, regulates energy metabolism via the
CREB-HES1-PPARγ signaling axis.
EOF
Obesity and sleep disturbances comprise major health problems which are likely
interrelated. Diet-induced obesity in young mice has been demonstrated to lead
towards an altered sleep homeostasis. In the current study, we investigated the
effect of chronic (12 weeks) high-caloric diet (HCD, 45% fat) consumption on
sleep and the sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) in young and older mice
(6-month-old, n = 9; 18-month-old, n = 8 and 24-month-old, n = 4) and compared
with age-matched controls on normal chow (n = 11, n = 9 and n = 9 respectively). 
Half of the 24-month-old mice did not cope well with HCD, therefore this group
has a lower n and limited statistical power. We recorded EEG and the
electromyogram for continuous 48-h and performed a 6-h sleep deprivation during
the second day. In aged HCD fed mice (18 months old) compared to young, an aging 
effect was still evident, characterized by decreased waking and increased NREM
sleep in the dark period, decreased REM sleep during the light period, as well as
increased slow-wave-activity (SWA, EEG power in NREM sleep in 0.5-4.0 Hz).
Additionally, aged HCD treated mice showed increased NREM sleep and decreased
waking, compared to age-matched controls, denoting an enhanced aging phenotype in
the sleep architecture. Notably, an overall increase was found in the slow
component of SWA (0.5-2.5 Hz) in aged HCD fed mice compared to age-matched
controls. Our data suggest that the effect of aging is the dominant variable
irrespective of diet. However, a synergistic effect of aging and diet is noted
indicating that chronic HCD consumption exacerbates age-associated sleep
alterations.
EOF
GDF15 is an established biomarker of cellular stress. The fact that it signals
via a specific hindbrain receptor, GFRAL, and that mice lacking GDF15 manifest
diet-induced obesity suggest that GDF15 may play a physiological role in energy
balance. We performed experiments in humans, mice, and cells to determine if and 
how nutritional perturbations modify GDF15 expression. Circulating GDF15 levels
manifest very modest changes in response to moderate caloric surpluses or
deficits in mice or humans, differentiating it from classical intestinally
derived satiety hormones and leptin. However, GDF15 levels do increase following 
sustained high-fat feeding or dietary amino acid imbalance in mice. We
demonstrate that GDF15 expression is regulated by the integrated stress response 
and is induced in selected tissues in mice in these settings. Finally, we show
that pharmacological GDF15 administration to mice can trigger conditioned taste
aversion, suggesting that GDF15 may induce an aversive response to nutritional
stress.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Some factors related to lifestyle, including stress and high-fat diet 
(HFD) consumption, are associated with higher prevalence of obesity. These
factors can lead to an imbalance between ROS production and antioxidant defenses 
and to mitochondrial dysfunctions, which, in turn, could cause metabolic
impairments, favoring the development of obesity. However, little is known about 
the interplay between these factors, particularly at early ages, and whether
long-term sex-specific changes may occur. Here, we evaluated whether social
isolation during the prepubertal period only, associated or not with chronic HFD,
can exert long-term effects on oxidative status parameters and on mitochondrial
function in the whole hypothalamus, in a sex-specific manner.
METHODS: Wistar male and female rats were divided into two groups (receiving
standard chow or standard chow + HFD), that were subdivided into exposed or not
to social isolation during the prepubertal period. Oxidative status parameters,
and mitochondrial function were evaluated in the hypothalamus in the adult age.
RESULTS: Regarding antioxidant enzymes activities, HFD decreased GPx activity in 
the hypothalamus, while increasing SOD activity in females. Females also
presented increased total thiols; however, non-protein thiols were lower. Main
effects of stress and HFD were observed in TBARS levels in males, with both
factors decreasing this parameter. Additionally, HFD increased complex IV
activity, and decreased mitochondrial mass in females. Complex I-III activity was
higher in males compared to females.
CONCLUSION: Stress during the prepubertal period and chronic consumption of HFD
had persistent sex-specific effects on oxidative status, as well as on its
consequences for the cell and for mitochondrial function. HFD had more
detrimental effects on females, inducing oxidative imbalance, which resulted in
damage to the mitochondria. This HFD-induced imbalance may be related to the
development of obesity.
EOF
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of supplementing xylanase
on production performance, nutrient digestibility, and milk fatty acid profile in
high-producing dairy cows consuming corn silage- or sorghum silage-based diets.
Conventional corn (80,000 seeds/ha) and brown midrib forage sorghum (250,000
seeds/ha) were planted, harvested [34 and 32% of dry matter (DM), respectively], 
and ensiled for more than 10 mo. Four primiparous and 20 multiparous Holstein
cows were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 diets in a replicated 4 × 4 Latin square
design with a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement of treatments and 19-d periods.
Treatment diets consisted of (1) corn silage-based diet without xylanase, (2)
corn silage-based diet with xylanase, (3) sorghum silage-based diet without
xylanase, and (4) sorghum silage-based diet with xylanase. The xylanase product
was supplemented at a rate of 1.5 g of product/kg of total DM. Corn silage had
higher concentrations of starch (31.2 vs. 29.2%), slightly higher concentrations 
of crude protein (7.1 vs. 6.8%) and fat (3.7 vs. 3.2%), and lower concentrations 
of neutral detergent fiber (36.4 vs. 49.0%) and lignin (2.1 vs. 5.7%) than
sorghum silage. Xylanase supplementation did not affect DM intake, milk yield,
milk fat percentage and yield, milk protein percentage and yield, lactose
percentage and yield, and 3.5% fat-corrected milk yield. Cows consuming corn
silage-based diets consumed 13% more DM (28.8 vs. 25.5 kg/d) and produced 5% more
milk (51.6 vs. 48.9 kg/d) than cows consuming sorghum silage-based diets. Milk
from cows consuming sorghum silage-based diets had 16% greater fat concentrations
(3.84 and 3.30%) than milk from cows consuming corn silage-based diets. This
resulted in 8% greater fat yields (1.81 vs. 1.68 kg/d). Silage type did not
affect milk protein and lactose concentrations. Xylanase supplementation did not 
affect nutrient digestibility. Cows consuming corn silage-based diets showed
greater DM (77.3 vs. 73.5%), crude protein (78.0 vs. 72.4), and starch (99.2 vs. 
96.5%) digestibilities than cows consuming sorghum silage-based diets. In
conclusion, xylanase supplementation did not improve production performance when 
high-producing dairy cows were fed corn silage- or sorghum silage-based diets. In
addition, production performance can be sustained by feeding sorghum silage in
replacement of corn silage.
EOF
The objectives of this study were to evaluate calf performance and diet
digestibility when feeding a milk replacer (MR; 25% crude protein, 18% fat, dry
matter basis) at a moderate (MOD) and high (HI) rate, along with MOD with
neomycin-oxytetracycline inclusion (1.43 each g/kg; NTMOD). Male Holstein calves 
(n = 48; 45 ± 1.0 kg of body weight; 3 to 4 d of age) were housed in individual
pens for 56 d. All calves were initially fed 0.66 kg of dry matter from MR for
the first p.m. and following a.m. feeding, then randomly assigned to 1 of 2
feeding programs: (1) 0.66 kg of dry matter/d for first 39 d divided into 2 equal
a.m. and p.m. meals and 0.33 kg for 3 d fed once daily in the a.m. feeding only
(MOD, NTMOD); (2) 0.85 kg of dry matter/d for the first 4 d divided into 2 equal 
a.m. and p.m. meals, 1.07 kg of dry matter/d for the next 31 d divided into 2
equal a.m. and p.m. meals, and 0.48 kg for 7 d fed once daily in the a.m. feeding
only (HI). Calves were fed a textured starter containing whole grains (20% crude 
protein, 43% starch, dry matter basis). Fecal samples were collected for 5
individual calves per treatment between d 47 to 51 to estimate digestibility.
Calves were moved into groups by treatment (4 calves/pen) at 56 d and fed the
same starter blended with 5% hay until d 112. Data were analyzed as a completely 
randomized design with repeated measures when applicable using mixed models. Milk
replacer dry matter intake averaged 27.4 kg for MOD and NTMOD and 40.3 kg for HI 
per calf. Preweaning starter intake was less for calves fed HI versus MOD.
Preweaning calf BCS change was greater for calves fed HI versus MOD. Preweaning
medical treatment days were fewer for calves fed NTMOD versus MOD. Postweaning
starter intake was less for calves fed HI versus MOD. Postweaning average daily
gain was less for calves fed NTMOD versus MOD. Over the 56-d nursery trial,
calves fed HI had less starter intake than calves fed MOD. Digestibility of dry
matter, organic matter, acid detergent fiber, and neutral detergent fiber were
greater for calves fed MOD versus NTMOD or HI during d 47 to 51 postweaning.
Additionally, digestibility of fat was greater for calves fed MOD versus HI.
During d 56 to 112, hip width change was greater for calves fed MOD versus NTMOD 
or HI. Over 0 to 112 d, body weight gain was 100, 98, and 102 kg, whereas hip
width change was 10.2, 9.0, and 9.2 cm for calves fed MOD, NTMOD, and HI,
respectively. Any preweaning improvements from feeding NTMOD or HI over MOD were 
lost during the postweaning period, which could be partially explained by
reductions in diet digestibility.
EOF
Fetal growth and development are dependent on adequate placental nutrient
transfer. The surface area of the placental villous network is a key determinant 
of nutrient exchange, which is regulated by vasculogenic and angiogenic factors. 
These factors are altered by intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and maternal 
obesity in both the first (F1) and second (F2) generations. We investigated the
impact of endurance exercise in IUGR dams fed a High-fat diet on placental
vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. Uteroplacental insufficiency (Restricted) or
sham (Control) surgery was induced on embryonic day (E) 18 in Wistar-Kyoto rats. 
F1 offspring were fed a Chow or High-fat diet from weaning, and at 16 weeks were 
further allocated an exercise protocol; Sedentary, Exercised prior to and during 
pregnancy (Exercise), or Exercised during pregnancy only (PregEx). Females were
mated (20 weeks) and F2 placentae collected at E20. Maternal Restriction,
High-fat feeding and Exercise had a minimal impact on placental regulators of
vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. However, Restriction increased placental
labyrinth tissue area in Chow-fed dams. PregEx induced overt adaptations,
including increased VEGFA and decreased PLGF protein expression, and reduced
blood space area. These alterations were sex-dependent and associated with
alterations in miRNA27a, a known regulator of VEGF translation. These data
highlight that maternal exercise initiated during pregnancy (PregEx) causes
alterations in placental vasculogenesis and angiogenesis in a sex-dependent
manner, with minimal Restriction and maternal diet effects. However, further
investigation is required to determine if these adaptations are beneficial or
harmful for maternal and fetoplacental outcomes.
EOF
Unimolecular peptide-based dual agonists against glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor
(GLP-1R) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) have
been gaining much attention recently as novel anti-diabetic agents that can
potentially control glycaemia and bodyweight. While glucagon-like Peptide (GLP-1)
and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) both enhance insulin
secretion and subsequently ameliorate postprandial glucose excursion, most
research has focused on GLP-1R as a therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes. This 
is partly because the effects of GIPR activation on glycemia and bodyweight have 
been controversial. GIPR-deficient mice demonstrated impaired glucose tolerance
with reduced β-cell function and resistance to high fat diet-induced obesity,
while GIPR agonists improved glycaemia and prevent high fat diet-induced obesity 
in mice. Conflicting results in mice may be explained by that pharmacological
levels of GIP signal in the central nervous systems decreased food intake and
overcome obesogenic effects of GIP at physiological levels in adipose tissues.
Thus, GIPR activation at pharmacological levels might result in bodyweight
reduction. Indeed, bodyweight reduction by GIPR/GLP-1R dual agonists were greater
than GLP-1R single agonists in　type 2 diabetes individuals. Thus, GLP-1R/GIPR
dual agonists can add additional therapeutic efficacy to tailored diabetes care, 
especially among obese type 2 diabetes individuals. However, caution should be
exercised as to whether or not these drugs are appropriate for the management of 
Asian type 2 diabetes, which is primarily characterized by non-obesity and
impaired β-cell function, as well as in that of type 2 diabetes in elderly
adults, who tend to develop sarcopenia and frailty due to poor energy intake.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Total aralosides of Aralia elata (Miq) Seem (TASAESs) possess multiple
pharmacological activity, such as anti-inflammation, antioxidation, and
antiapoptosis. However, there is no literature reporting the antiatherosclerotic 
effect and mechanism of TASAES so far. The aim of this study was to investigate
the antiatherosclerotic effects in high-fat diet-induced ApoE-/- mice and
potential mechanism of TASAES in ox-LDL-injured endothelial cells. In vivo assay,
our data demonstrated that TASAES significantly reduced the atherosclerotic
plaque size and caspase-3 expression level in aortic valve. In vitro, we found
that TASAES could increase endothelial cell viability, attenuated mitochondrial
membrane potential depolarization, and endothelial cells apoptosis. In addition, 
we found that TASAES could activate SIRT1/AMPK and Akt/eNOS signaling pathways.
Importantly, EX527, SIRT1 siRNA, and LY294002, Akt siRNA, remarkably abolished
the antiapoptotic effects of TASAES. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that 
SIRT1/AMPK and Akt/eNOS signaling pathways are involved in endothelial protection
of TASAES against atherosclerotic mice, suggesting that TASAES is a candidate
drug for atherosclerosis treatment.
EOF
Background: The heterogeneity of histological findings in preclinical
diet-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) animal models is highly
challenging. Here, we aimed to evaluate the feasibility and stability of repeated
liver biopsy in NAFLD animal models.
Methods: Heterogeneity of diet-induced NAFLD was evaluated at different time
points in 52 high-fat diet (HFD), 35 methionine choline-deficiency diet (MCD),
and 166 western diet (WD) induced NAFLD mice. Serial liver biopsies (left
lateral, right medial, and left medial lobes) were performed monthly for up to 3 
months. Mortality rates and changes in food intake, body weight, and liver
enzymes were assessed.
Results: At 12 weeks, of the HFD animals, 14% and 30% did not develop steatosis
and lobular inflammation, respectively; of the MCD animals, 7% did not develop
lobular inflammation; and of the WD animals, 14% and 51% did not develop
steatosis and lobular inflammation, respectively. The mortality rate of repeated 
liver biopsy was 1.62% (2/123 mice died). Repeated liver biopsy can be used to
trace disease progression. Although body weight, food intake, and liver enzymes
slightly changed after biopsy, all recovered within a week. Repeated liver biopsy
did not affect the degrees of inflammation and steatosis of the other liver
lobes.
Conclusion: The diet-induced NAFLD models were quite heterogeneous. Our results
suggest that the repeated liver biopsy before treatment was applicable and stable
in this NAFLD animal study.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To determine the mitigating effects of sodium 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA)
on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced spermatogenesis dysfunction.
METHODS: Male rats (n = 30) were randomly divided into three groups: control,
HFD, and 4-PBA (HFD +4-PBA). After 13 weeks, rats were euthanized. Testes and
epididymis were harvested for further analysis. Sex hormones were detected, and
hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to examine the histological changes 
in the testes. Semen samples were collected to evaluate sperm quality.
Spermatogenic cell apoptosis was detected by TUNEL assay.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the final body weight and body weight
gain were significantly higher in HFD-fed rats, while the testicle/body weight
ratios were lower (P < 0.05). In HFD-fed rats, obvious pathological changes in
the testicular tissue were observed. Treatment with 4-PBA attenuated HFD-induced 
histological damage, ameliorated the HFD-induced decrease in serum testosterone
(T), and reduced the rate of testicular cell apoptosis (P < 0.05) in obese male
rats. Finally, 4-PBA significantly improved semen parameters in HFD rats (P <
0.05).
CONCLUSION: HFD exposure induced detrimental effects on spermatogenesis, semen
quality, serum T level, and testicular cell apoptosis in rats. Treatment with
4-PBA ameliorated HFD？induced impaired spermatogenesis via inhibition of
apop-tosis in rats. 4-PBA may have therapeutic value in the treatment of
obesity？related impairment of spermatogenesis.
EOF
It is well established that inadequate nutrition during fetal life followed by
postnatal overabundance programs adiposity and glucose intolerance. Studies
addressing sexual dimorphism in developmental responses to a dietary mismatch are
limited; the effect on blood pressure and renal function is understudied.
Therefore, this study tested the hypothesis that a mismatch of prenatal and
postnatal nutrition heightens cardiorenal and metabolic risk, outcomes that may
vary by sex. Male and female offspring from sham-operated (control) or reduced
uterine perfusion dams (growth restricted) were fed regular chow or a diet high
in fat and sugar (enriched diet) from weaning until 6 months of age. Male and
female offspring were assessed separately; 2-way ANOVA was used to investigate
interactions between intrauterine growth-restricted and enriched-diet. Blood
pressure was increased in all enriched-diet groups but did not differ in
enriched-diet male or female growth-restricted versus same-sex control
counterparts. Glomerular filtration rate was reduced in male growth-restricted
regardless of diet; a decrease exacerbated by the enriched-diet suggesting the
pathogenesis of increased blood pressure induced via an enriched-diet differs
between male growth-restricted versus male control. An enriched diet was
associated with glucose intolerance in male and female control but not male
growth-restricted; the enriched diet exacerbated glucose intolerance in female
growth-restricted. Thus, these findings indicate male growth-restricted are
resistant to impaired glucose homeostasis, whereas female growth-restricted are
susceptible to metabolic dysfunction regardless of postnatal diet. Hence,
moderation of fat and sugar intake may be warranted in those born low birth
weight to ensure minimal risk for chronic disease.
EOF
Background/Aims Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a major cytokine controlling body
weight and metabolism, at least in part through actions in the central nervous
system (CNS) from local sources. Methods We herewith report results obtained in
conditional IL-6 KO mice for brain cells (Il6ΔGfap and Il6ΔSyn). Results The
reporter RiboTag mouse line demonstrated specific astrocytic expression of
GFAP-dependent Cre in the hypothalamus but not in other brain areas, whereas that
of Synapsin 1 dependent Cre was specific for neurons. Feeding a high-fat diet
(HFD) or a control diet showed that Il6ΔGfap and Il6ΔSyn mice were more prone and
resistant, respectively, to HFD-induced obesity. Energy intake was not altered in
HFD experiments, but it was reduced in Il6ΔSyn male mice following a 24-hour
fast. HFD increased circulating insulin, leptin, and cholesterol levels,
decreased triglycerides, and caused impaired responses to the insulin and glucose
tolerance tests. In Il6ΔGfap mice the only significant difference observed was an
increase in insulin levels of females, whereas in Il6ΔSyn mice the effects of HFD
were decreased. Hypothalamic Agrp expression was significantly decreased by HFD, 
further decreased in Il6ΔGfap, and increased in Il6ΔSyn female mice. Hypothalamic
Il-6 mRNA levels were not decreased in Il6ΔSyn mice and even increased in
Il6ΔGfap male mice. Microarray analysis of hypothalamic RNA showed that female
Il6ΔGfap mice had increased interferon-related pathways and affected processes in
behavior, modulation of chemical synaptic transmission, learning and memory.
Conclusion The present results demonstrate that brain production of IL-6
regulates body weight in the context of caloric excess and that the cellular
source is critical.
EOF
SCOPE: Long-term feeding of a high-fat diet (HFD) causes gastrointestinal
inflammation and gut microbiota disturbance, leading to the increased occurrence 
of obesity and anxiety. In the present study, we examined the effects of
heat-labile Lactobacillus sakei OK67, tyndallized OK67 (tOK67), and heat-stable
Lactobacillus sakei PK16 on HFD-induced obesity and anxiety in mice.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Obesity was induced in mice by feeding with HFD. Oral
administration of live OK67, tOK67, or PK16 reduced HFD-induced body and liver
weights and blood triglyceride, total cholesterol, corticosterone, and
lipopolysaccharide levels. These treatments also suppressed HFD-induced NF-κB
activation and increased HFD-suppressed AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)
activation and SIRT-1 expression in the liver. OK67 or PK16 treatment alleviated 
HFD-induced anxiety-like behaviors and increased BDNF expression and NF-κB
activation in the hippocampus. Moreover, OK67 or PK16 treatment suppressed
HFD-induced colitis and suppressed the Proteobacteria population and fecal
lipopolysaccharide levels in mice. OK67 or PK16 treatment inhibited NF-κB
activation and induced AMPK activation and SIRT-1 expression in
lipopolysaccharide-stimulated Caco-2 cells. Overall, the anti-obesity and
anxiolytic effects of live OK67 were more potent than those of tOK67.
CONCLUSION: Lactobacillus sakei can alleviate HFD-induced obesity, colitis, and
anxiety by regulating gut microbiota-mediated AMPK and NF-κB activation and
SIRT-1 expression. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The molecular mechanism for the pathogenesis of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains elusive. Both farnesoid X
receptor (FXR) signalling and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress contribute to the
progression of NAFLD; however, it is not clear whether the actions of these two
pathways are dependent on each other. Moreover, the pharmacological benefits and 
mechanism of betulinic acid (BA) in controlling metabolic syndrome (MS) and NAFLD
are largely unknown.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: A reporter assay and a time-resolved FRET assay were used 
to identify BA as a agonist of FXR. NAFLD was induced by methionine and
choline-deficient L-amino acid diet (MCD diet) and high-fat diet (HFD) . The
pharmacological effects of BA (100 mg.100 g-1 diet) and potential interactions
between hepatic FXR activation and ER stress pathways were evaluated by FXR
silencing, Western blot and RT-PCR analyses using control and FXR-/- mice.
KEY RESULTS: We found that the FXR activation inhibited the intracellular
PERK/EIF2α/ATF4 and CHOP signalling, thereby alleviating hepatic ER stress, while
FXR silencing resulted in an opposite effect. Furthermore, we identified BA as an
FXR agonist that effectively attenuated the progression of NAFLD and metabolic
disorders in both HF-diet and MCD diet-fed mice and restores the hepatocellular
ER homeostasis by stimulating the FXR signalling and blocking PERK/EIF2α
signalling. In contrast, the effects of BA were attenuated in FXR-/- mice.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our data demonstrate that pharmacological FXR
activation by BA reduces hepatocellular ER stress in the treatment of hepatic
steatosis.
EOF
The aim of this study was to assess inflammatory parameters, oxidative stress and
energy metabolism in the hypothalamus of diet-induced obese mice. Male Swiss mice
were divided into two study groups: control group and obese group. The animals in
the control group were fed a diet with adequate amounts of macronutrients
(normal-lipid diet), whereas the animals in the obese group were fed a high-fat
diet to induce obesity. Obesity induction lasted 10 weeks, at the end of this
period the disease model was validated in animals. The animals in the obese group
had higher calorie consumption, higher body weight and higher weight of
mesenteric fat compared to control group. Obesity showed an increase in levels of
interleukin 1β and decreased levels of interleukin 10 in the hypothalamus.
Furthermore, increased lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation, and
decreased level of glutathione in the hypothalamus of obese animals. However,
there was no statistically significant difference in the activity of antioxidant 
enzymes, superoxide dismutase and catalase. The obese group had lower activity of
complex I, II and IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, as well as lower
activity of creatine kinase in the hypothalamus as compared to the control group.
Thus, the results from this study showed changes in inflammatory markers, and
dysregulation of metabolic enzymes in the pathophysiology of obesity.
EOF
Obesity may aggravate acute pancreatitis (AP) through damaging the intestinal
mucosal barrier (IMB). The underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study was
aimed to provide further data to clarify the mechanism. 48 rats were divided into
4 groups: 1) normal control (NC), chow-fed rats with sham operation, 2) no-obese 
rats with AP (NAP), chow-fed rats with taurocholate infusion, 3) obese control
(OC), high-fat diet (HFD)-fed rats with sham operation, and 4) obese rats with AP
(OAP), HFD-fed rats with taurocholate infusion. Pancreatic pathologic score
(11.39 ± 1.76 vs. 14.11 ± 1.05, p = 0.005), intestinal permeability to FD4
(0.91 ± 0.25 μg/ml vs. 7.06 ± 3.67 μg/ml, p < 0.001), serum leptin
(10.25 ± 5.59 ng/ml vs. 79.73 ± 38.44 ng/ml, p < 0.001) and ileal apoptosis
(2.05 ± 0.73% vs. 4.53 ± 2.28%, p = 0.006) were significantly higher in OAP than 
in NAP group. The intestinal bacterial richness (Chao 1 and OTUs) was
significantly lower in OAP than in NAP rats. The higher abundance of
Proteobacteria and reduced proportions of intestinal Actinobacteria, Allobaculum 
and Barnesiella were detected in OAP group. Obesity may result in decreased
intestinal leptin/ObR-b binding, distinct phylogenetic clusters of ileal
bacterial communities, increased intestinal inflammatory injury and the
insufficient intestinal epithelial cells proliferation during AP attack.
Pancreatic injury was aggravated due to obesity associated dysfunction of IMB.
EOF
Vinpocetine, a phosphodiesterase (PDE) type-1 inhibitor, increases cAMP and cGMP 
levels and is currently used for the management of cerebrovascular disorders,
such as stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, and cognitive dysfunctions. In this study,
we first determined that vinpocetine effectively suppressed adipogenesis and
lipid accumulation. However, we questioned which molecular mechanism is involved 
because the role of PDE in adipogenesis is still controversial. Vinpocetine
decreased adipogenic cell signaling, including the phosphorylation of ERK, AKT,
JAK2, and STAT3, and adipokine secretion, including IL-6, IL-10, and IFN-α.
Interestingly, vinpocetine increased the phosphorylation of HSL, suggesting the
induction of the lipolysis pathway. Moreover, vinpocetine increased UCP1
expression via increasing cAMP and PKA phosphorylation. The administration of
vinpocetine with a normal-chow diet (NFD) or a high-fat diet (HFD) in mice
attenuated body weight gain in mice fed both the NFD and HFD. These effects were 
larger in the HFD-fed mice, without a difference in food intake. Vinpocetine
drastically decreased fat weight and adipocyte cell sizes in gonadal and inguinal
white adipose tissues and in the liver in both diet groups. Serum triacylglycerol
levels and fasting blood glucose levels were reduced by vinpocetine treatment.
This study suggested that vinpocetine prevents adipocyte differentiation through 
the inhibition of adipogenesis-associated cell signaling in the early stages of
adipogenesis. Moreover, upregulating cAMP levels leads to an increase in
lipolysis and UCP1 expression and then inhibits lipid accumulation. Therefore, we
suggest that vinpocetine could be an effective agent for treating obesity, as
well as improving cognition and cardiovascular function in older individuals.
EOF
This study aimed to develop a multidisciplinary lifestyle intervention program
targeted at children and adolescents with moderate to severe obesity, and assess 
the additional effects of exercise intervention when compared to usual care.
Overall, the 103 enrolled participants were ≥85th percentile of age and
sex-specific body mass index (BMI). Participants were divided into groups that
received 16 weeks of either usual care or exercise intervention. The BMI z-score 
of the overall completers decreased by about 0.05 after the 16-week intervention 
(p = 0.02). After the intervention, only the exercise group had a significantly
lower BMI z-score than the baseline score by about 0.1 (p = 0.03), but no
significant group by time interaction effects were observed. At the 16-week
follow-up, significant group by time interaction effects were observed in
percentage body fat (%BF) (β = -1.52, 95%CI = -2.58⁻-0.45), lean body mass (LM)
(β = 1.20, 95%CI = 0.12⁻2.29), diastolic blood pressure (β = -5.24, 95%CI =
-9.66⁻-0.83), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (β = -1.67, 95%CI =
-2.77⁻-1.01), and wall sit test score (β = 50.74, 95%CI = 32.30⁻69.18). We
developed a moderate-intensity intervention program that can be sustained in the 
real-world setting and is practically applicable to both moderate and severe
obesity. After interventions, the exercise group had lower %BF and
cardiometabolic risk markers, and higher LM and leg muscle strength compared to
the usual care group.
EOF
Reducing oxidative stress is an important goal in post-weaning piglets; previous 
studies have reported that verbascoside decreases oxidative stress in piglets.
The effect of verbascoside on gut morphology and α-transducin and α-gustducin
expression in weaned piglets fed high dosages of sunflower oil, inducing
oxidative stress, was evaluated. A diet with 9% sunflower oil (T1), the same diet
supplemented with 5 mg of verbascoside/kg feed (T2) and a diet containing starch 
(control-CTR) were employed. Histology, histometry, histochemistry,
immunofluorescence and Western blot analyses were performed on the piglets' small
intestine. In the T1 group, apical erosion was observed and villi height was
lower than in other groups. The mucin profile was acidic in goblet cells of both 
the T1 and T2 groups. However, it was both neutral and acidic in the CTR group.
Dietary treatments did not affect α-gustducin expression. Otherwise, the
expression of α-transducin in the duodenum was lower (p < 0.01) in the T1 groups 
than in the other groups. The colocalization of α-transducin with chromogranin A 
and ghrelin revealed that the endocrine cells were immunopositive for both
ghrelin and α-transducin. Overall, these results provide new insights into gut
sensory perception in piglets and contribute to understanding how feed
ingredients such as fat and polyphenols may be involved in gustatory signal
transduction.
EOF
Studies suggest that endurance athletes are at higher-than-average risk for
atherosclerosis and myocardial damage. The ability of plant-based regimens to
reduce risk and affect performance was reviewed. The effect of plant-based diets 
on cardiovascular risk factors, particularly plasma lipid concentrations, body
weight, and blood pressure, and, as part of a healthful lifestyle, reversing
existing atherosclerotic lesions, may provide a substantial measure of
cardiovascular protection. In addition, plant-based diets may offer performance
advantages. They have consistently been shown to reduce body fat, leading to a
leaner body composition. Because plants are typically high in carbohydrate, they 
foster effective glycogen storage. By reducing blood viscosity and improving
arterial flexibility and endothelial function, they may be expected to improve
vascular flow and tissue oxygenation. Because many vegetables, fruits, and other 
plant-based foods are rich in antioxidants, they help reduce oxidative stress.
Diets emphasizing plant foods have also been shown to reduce indicators of
inflammation. These features of plant-based diets may present safety and
performance advantages for endurance athletes. The purpose of this review was to 
explore the role of nutrition in providing cardioprotection, with a focus on
plant-based diets previously shown to provide cardiac benefits.
EOF
Sociodemographic differences in dietary consumption were observed in different
populations. The current study aimed to identify sociodemographic and lifestyle
determinants of diet quality and to investigate the differences in diet quality
between the three main language regions of Switzerland. Using data of the Swiss
National Nutrition Survey menuCH (n = 2057), two diet quality scores-Alternate
Healthy Eating Index and Mediterranean Diet Score-were computed. Linear
regression models were used to investigate the determinants of diet quality and
chi-square tests were used to test for differences in single score components
between language regions. Significantly higher diet quality scores were observed 
for individuals who were female, older, normal weight, non-Swiss, with tertiary
education or moderate-to-high physical activity level. Additionally, residents of
the French- and Italian-speaking parts of Switzerland scored higher than
residents of the German-speaking region. More specifically, the higher diet
quality observed in the French- and Italian-speaking regions was mediated by
higher scores in the components of alcohol, dairy products, fat, fish,
sugar-sweetened beverages and whole grains. The present results may help to
better characterize population groups requiring specific dietary recommendations,
enabling public health authorities to develop targeted interventions.
EOF
Asperlin is a marine-derived, natural product with antifungal, anti-inflammatory 
and anti-atherosclerotic activities. In the present study, we showed that
asperlin effectively prevented the development of obesity in high-fat diet
(HFD)-fed mice. Oral administration of asperlin for 12 weeks significantly
suppressed HFD-induced body weight gain and fat deposition without inhibiting
food intake. Hyperlipidemia and liver steatosis were also substantially
ameliorated. A respiratory metabolism monitor showed that asperlin efficiently
increased energy expenditure and enhanced thermogenic gene expression in adipose 
tissue. Accordingly, asperlin-treated mice showed higher body temperature and
were more tolerant of cold stress. Meanwhile, asperlin also increased the
diversity and shifted the structure of gut microbiota. Oral administration of
asperlin markedly increased the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes, leading to a
higher Bacteroidetes-to-Fimicutes ratio. The HFD-induced abnormalities at both
phylum and genus levels were all remarkably recovered by asperlin. These results 
demonstrated that asperlin is effective in preventing HFD-induced obesity and
modulating gut microbiota. Its anti-obesity properties may be attributed to its
effect on promoting energy expenditure.
EOF
Crohn's disease is characterized by abnormal ileal colonization by
adherent-invasive E. coli (AIEC) and expansion of mesenteric adipose tissue. This
study assessed the preventive effect of spontaneous physical activity (PA) on the
gut-adipose tissue in a mouse model that mimics Crohn's disease susceptibility.
Thirty-five CEABAC10 male mice performed spontaneous PA (wheel group; n = 24) or 
not (controls; n = 11) for 12 weeks. At week 12, mice were orally challenged with
the AIEC LF82 strain for 6 days. Body composition, glycaemic control, intestinal 
permeability, gut microbiota composition, and fecal short-chain fatty acids were 
assessed in both groups. Animals were fed a high fat/high sugar diet throughout
the study. After exposure to AIEC, mesenteric adipose tissue weight was lower in 
the wheel group. Tight junction proteins expression increased with spontaneous
PA, whereas systemic lipopolysaccharides were negatively correlated with the
covered distance. Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus decreased in controls,
whereas Oscillospira and Ruminococcus increased in the wheel group. Fecal
propionate and butyrate were also higher in the wheel group. In conclusion,
spontaneous physical activity promotes healthy gut microbiota composition changes
and increases short-chain fatty acids in CEABAC10 mice fed a Western diet and
exposed to AIEC to mimic Crohn's disease.
EOF
Insulin resistance and autonomic imbalance are important pathological processes
in metabolic syndrome-induced cardiac remodeling. Recent studies determined that 
disruption of mitochondrial cristae shape is associated with myocardial ischemia;
however, the change in cristae shape in metabolic syndrome-induced cardiac
remodeling remains unclear. This study determined the effect of pyridostigmine
(PYR), which reversibly inhibits cholinesterase to improve autonomic imbalance,
on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced cardiac insulin resistance and explored the
potential effect on the shape of mitochondrial cristae. Feeding of a HFD for 22
weeks led to an irregular and even lysed cristae structure in cardiac
mitochondria, which contributed to decreased mitochondrial content and ATP
production and increased oxygen species production, ultimately impairing insulin 
signaling and lipid metabolism. Interestingly, PYR enhanced vagal activity by
increasing acetylcholine production and exerted mito-protective effects by
activating the LKB1/AMPK/ACC signal pathway. Specifically, PYR upregulated OPA1
and Mfn1/2 expression, promoted the formation of the mitofilin/CHCHD3/Sam50
complex, and decreased p-Drp1 and Fis1 expression, resulting in tight and
parallel cristae and increasing cardiac mitochondrial complex subunit expression 
and ATP generation as well as decreasing release of cytochrome C from
mitochondria and oxidative damage. Furthermore, PYR improved glucose and insulin 
tolerance and insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation, decreased lipid toxicity,
and ultimately ameliorated HFD-induced cardiac remodeling and dysfunction. In
conclusion, PYR prevented cardiac and insulin insensitivity and remodeling by
stimulating vagal activity to regulate mitochondrial cristae shape and function
in HFD-induced metabolic syndrome in mice. These results provide novel insights
for the development of a therapeutic strategy for obesity-induced cardiac
dysfunction that targets mitochondrial cristae.
EOF
Corticosterone (CORT) is a powerful regulator of energy metabolism, and
chronically high CORT levels cause obesity and diabetes in mice. It is reported
that a chronically high CORT level changes food preference, increasing the intake
of comfort foods such as fatty foods. Previously, we demonstrated that unlike a
high fat diet, voluntary ingestion of 100% pure corn oil increased energy
expenditure and thermogenesis through the activation of the interscapular brown
adipose tissue (IBAT). In the present study, we investigated whether chronically 
high CORT affected corn oil intake, energy expenditure, and body weight gain. We 
delivered CORT to mice via water bottles and placed corn oil in a separate
drinking bottle in the home cage. Voluntary corn oil ingestion with CORT induced 
significant body weight gain, while corn oil ingestion or CORT alone had a modest
effect. CORT increased corn oil intake without reducing chow intake, which
further increased the total daily caloric intake. CORT suppressed mRNA related to
thermogenesis in IBAT. In the hypothalamus, CORT upregulated mRNA expression of
the orexigenic neuropeptide, agouti-related protein. These data suggest that
chronically high CORT might increase the desire to consume dietary fat,
suppressing BAT function, thereby causing obesity.
EOF
The RANKL pathway is known to be an important aspect of the pathogenesis of
oestrogen deficiency-induced bone loss. RANK deletion specifically in
neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurones has been shown to enhance the ability of the
skeleton to match increases in body weight caused by high-fat diet feeding,
likely via the modulation of NPY levels. In the present study, we used
ovariectomy in female mice to show that RANK deletion in NPY neurones attenuates 
bone loss caused by long-term oestrogen deficiency, particularly in the vertebral
compartment. Ovariectomy led to a reduction in NPY expression levels in the
arcuate nucleus of NPYcre/+ ;RANKlox/lox mice compared to NPYcre/+ ;RANKlox/+
controls. Because NPY deficient mice also displayed a similar protection against 
ovariectomy-induced bone loss, modulation of hypothalamic NPY signalling is the
likely mechanism behind the protection from bone loss in the NPYcre/+
;RANKlox/lox mice.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a microbial choline metabolism
byproduct that is processed in the liver and excreted into circulation, is
associated with increased atherosclerotic lesion formation and cardiovascular
disease risk. Genetic regulators of TMAO levels are largely unknown. In the
present study, we used ~300 mice from a genetically heterogeneous mouse
population (Diversity Outbred; DO) to determine hepatic microRNA associations
with TMAO in the context of an atherogenic diet. We also validated findings in
two additional animal models of atherosclerosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Small RNA-sequencing analysis in DO mice fed an atherogenic 
diet, liver-specific insulin receptor knockout mice fed a chow diet, and African 
green monkeys fed high-fat-high-cholesterol diet, identified only one hepatic
microRNA, miR-146a, which is aberrantly expressed across all three models.
Moreover, miR-146a levels are associated with circulating TMAO after atherogenic 
diet in each of these models. We also performed high-resolution genetic mapping
and identified a novel QTL on Chromosome 12 for TMAO levels. This interval
includes two genes, Numb and Dlst, which are inversely correlated with both
miR-146 and TMAO, and are predicted targets of miR-146a. Both of these genes have
been validated as direct targets of miR-146a, though in other cellular contexts. 
This is the first report to our knowledge of a link between miR-146 and TMAO.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that miR-146, as well as one or more genes at
the Chromosome 12 QTL (possibly Numb or Dlst), is strongly linked to TMAO levels 
and likely involved in the control of atherosclerosis.
EOF
PURPOSE: To determine if parental feeding styles (emotional environment of the
meal) moderate the relationship between food parenting practices (goal-directed
behaviors) and children's preferences for fruits, vegetables, or high fat/sugar
foods.
DESIGN AND METHODS: This cross-sectional descriptive study recruited parents
(n = 108) of preschool age children. The parents completed several
questionnaires. Linear regressions were used to assess the relationship between
food parenting practices and children's food preferences as moderated by feeding 
style, with the authoritative feeding style serving as the reference.
RESULTS: Parental feeding styles were found to be moderators between several food
parenting practices and child food preferences. When compared with parents with
the authoritative feeding style (high demands, responds to child's needs),
children like vegetables significantly less if indulgent (low demands, responds
to child's needs) parents allow children to control their own eating, or
authoritarian (high demands, does not respond to child's needs), or uninvolved
(low demands, does not respond to child's needs) parents provide a healthy food
environment. The authoritative style was not always preferential. For example,
children of uninvolved parents who used food as a reward liked vegetables
significantly more than children of parents who had the authoritative feeding
style who also used food as a reward. In addition, children of authoritarian
parents who modeled healthy eating liked foods high in fat and/or sugar
significantly less than children of authoritative parents.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: When discussing child diet quality with parents, pediatric
nurses should educate parents on both food parenting practices and feeding style,
or the meal's emotional climate, as children experience both of these during
mealtime interactions. In addition, for educational efforts, it may be
advantageous to tailor interventions based upon the parent's feeding style.
EOF
SCOPE: The mechanisms and involvement of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) in the
protection from obesity and insulin resistance induced by intake of a high-fat
diet rich in omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids are investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: C57BL/6J mice are fed either a low-fat (control group) or
one of two isocaloric high-fat diets containing either lard (HFD) or fish oil
(HFN3) as fat source and evaluated for body weight, adiposity, energy
expenditure, glucose homeostasis, and inguinal white and interscapular brown
adipose tissue (iWAT and iBAT, respectively) gene expression, lipidome, and
mitochondrial bioenergetics. HFN3 intake protected from obesity, glucose and
insulin intolerances, and hyperinsulinemia. This is associated with increased
energy expenditure, iWAT UCP1 expression, and incorporation of n-3
eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic fatty acids in iWAT and iBAT
triacylglycerol. Importantly, HFN3 is equally effective in reducing body weight
gain, adiposity, and glucose intolerance and increasing energy expenditure in
wild-type and UCP1-deficient mice without recruiting other thermogenic processes 
in iWAT and iBAT, such as mitochondrial uncoupling and SERCA-mediated calcium and
creatine-driven substrate cyclings.
CONCLUSION: Intake of a high-fat diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids protects both
wild-type and UCP1-deficient mice from obesity and insulin resistance by
increasing energy expenditure through unknown mechanisms.
EOF
SCOPE: High fat (HF)-diet-induced insulin resistance is a major contributor to
the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms
that regulate cardiac insulin signaling are not fully understood. The regulatory 
role of tafazzin in the hearts of HF-diet-fed mice is investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Mice are fed a HF diet or low fat (LF) diet for up to
24 weeks. After 24 weeks, it is found that HF-diet-induced cardiac dysfunction is
linked to overexpression of the mitochondrial protein tafazzin. Increased
tafazzin promotes mitochondrial fission and impairs insulin signaling, which is
mediated by dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp-1) translocation from the cytosol to
the mitochondria. Furthermore, knockdown of tafazzin with siRNA inhibits
palmitic-acid-induced mitochondrial fission and restores insulin sensitivity.
Moreover, miR-125b-5p as an upstream regulator targeting tafazzin is identified
and palmitate-induced insulin resistance further rescued.
CONCLUSION: In HF-diet-fed mouse hearts, increased tafazzin contributes to
insulin resistance via mediating Drp-1 translocation to the mitochondria, and a
small non-coding RNA, miR-125b-5p, at least partially regulates this signaling
pathway and alleviates insulin resistance.
EOF
High protein diets have become popular for body weight maintenance and weight
loss despite controversies regarding efficacy and safety. Although both weight
gain and weight loss are determined by energy consumption and expenditure, data
from rodent trials consistently demonstrate that the protein:carbohydrate ratio
in high fat diets strongly influences body and fat mass gain per calorie eaten.
Here, we review data from rodent trials examining how high protein diets may
modulate energy metabolism and the mechanisms by which energy may be dissipated. 
We discuss the possible role of activating brown and so-called beige/BRITE
adipocytes including non-canonical UCP1-independent thermogenesis and futile
cycles, where two opposing metabolic pathways are operating simultaneously. We
further review data on how the gut microbiota may affect energy expenditure.
Results from human and rodent trials demonstrate that human trials are less
consistent than rodent trials, where casein is used almost exclusively as the
protein source. The lack of consistency in results from human trials may relate
to the specific design of human trials, the possible distinct impact of different
protein sources, and/or the differences in the efficiency of high protein diets
to attenuate obesity development in lean subjects vs. promoting weight loss in
obese subjects.
EOF
A high-fat diet (HFD) induces an increase in arterial pressure and a decrease in 
baroreflex function, which may be associated with increased expression of
angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) and pro-inflammatory cytokine genes and
reduced expression of the angiotensin type 2 receptor (AT2R) gene within the
nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), a key area of the brainstem involved in
cardiovascular control. Thus, in the present study, we evaluated the changes in
arterial pressure and gene expression of components of the renin-angiotensin
system (RAS) and neuroinflammatory markers in the NTS of rats fed a HFD and
treated with either an AT1R blocker or with virus-mediated AT2R overexpression in
the NTS. Male Holtzman rats (300-320 g) were fed either a standard rat chow diet 
(SD) or HFD for 6 weeks before commencing the tests. AT1R blockade in the NTS of 
HFD-fed rats attenuated the increase in arterial pressure and the impairment of
reflex bradycardia, whereas AT2R overexpression in the NTS only improved the
baroreflex function. The HFD also increased the hypertensive and decreased the
protective axis of the RAS and was associated with neuroinflammation within the
NTS. The expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme and neuroinflammatory
components, but not AT1R, in the NTS was reduced by AT2R overexpression in this
site. Based on these data, AT1R and AT2R in the NTS are differentially involved
in the cardiovascular changes induced by a HFD. Chronic inflammation and changes 
in the RAS in the NTS may also account for the cardiovascular responses observed 
in HFD-fed rats.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: Adhering to a low carbohydrate (CHO) high fat (LCHF) diet can alter
markers of iron metabolism in endurance athletes. This investigation examined the
re-introduction of CHO prior to, and during exercise on the iron-regulatory
response to exercise in a homogenous (in regard to serum ferritin concentration) 
group of athletes adapted to a LCHF diet.
DESIGN: Parallel groups design.
METHODS: Three weeks prior to the exercise trials, twenty-three elite race
walkers adhered to either a CHO-rich (n=14) or LCHF diet (n=9). A standardised
19-25km race walk was performed while athletes were still adhering to their
allocated dietary intervention (Adapt). A second test was performed three days
later, where all athletes were placed on a high CHO diet (CHO Restoration).
Venous blood samples were collected pre-, post- and 3h post-exercise and measured
for interleukin-6 (IL-6) and hepcidin-25.
RESULTS: The post-exercise IL-6 increase was greater in LCHF (p<0.001) during
both the Adapt (LCHF: 13.1-fold increase; 95% CI: 5.6-23.0, CHO: 8.0-fold
increase; 5.1-11.1) and CHO Restoration trials (LCHF: 18.5-fold increase;
10.9-28.9, CHO: 6.3-fold increase; 3.9-9.5); outcomes were not different between 
trials (p=0.84). Hepcidin-25 concentrations increased 3h post-exercise (p<0.001),
however, they did not differ between trials (p=0.46) or diets (p=0.84).
CONCLUSIONS: The elevated IL-6 response in athletes adapted to a LCHF diet was
not attenuated by an acute increase in exogenous CHO availability. Despite
diet-induced differences in IL-6 response to exercise, post-exercise hepcidin
levels were similar between diets and trials, indicating CHO availability has
minimal influence on post-exercise iron metabolism.
EOF
Depletion of the cholesterol esterifying enzyme acyl-Coenzyme A: cholesterol
acyltransferase 2 (ACAT2, encoded by Soat2) protects mice from atherosclerosis,
diet-induced hypercholesterolemia, and hepatic steatosis when fed
high-cholesterol diet. The glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) represents the main gate
of glucose uptake by the liver. Lipid synthesis from glucose (de novo
lipogenesis; DNL) plays a pivotal role in the development of hepatic steatosis.
Inhibition of DNL is a successful approach to reverse hepatic steatosis, as shown
by different studies in mice and humans. Here we aimed to investigate whether
depletion of Soat2 per se can reduce hepatic steatosis, also in the presence of
very low levels of cholesterol in the diet, and the underlying mechanisms. Female
Soat2-/- and wild type mice were either fed high-fat or high-carbohydrate diet
and both contained <0.05% (w/w) cholesterol. Analysis in serum, liver, muscles
and adipose tissues were performed. We found Soat2-/- mice fed high-fat,
low-cholesterol diet to have less hepatic steatosis, decreased expression of
genes involved in DNL and lower hepatic GLUT2. Similar findings were found in
Soat2-/- mice fed high-carbohydrate, low-cholesterol diet. CONCLUSION: Depletion 
of Soat2 reduces hepatic steatosis independently of the presence of high levels
of cholesterol in the diet. Our study provides a link between hepatic cholesterol
esterification, DNL, and GLUT2.
EOF
Atherosclerosis (AS) is the common pathological basis of chronic cardiovascular
diseases and is associated with inflammation and lipid metabolism dysfunction.
Geniposide, the main active ingredient of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis fruit,
exhibits a variety of anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative functions; however,
its role in AS remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the
mechanisms of geniposide in alleviating inflammation and thereby attenuating the 
development of AS. ApoE-/- mice were fed a high fat diet to induce AS and were
treated with geniposide (50 mg/kg) for 12 weeks. Blood glucose and lipid levels
were measured by biochemical analysis. H&E, Masson and Oil red O staining were
performed to observe morphological changes and lipid deposition in the aorta and 
liver. Serum inflammatory cytokines were detected by ELISA. Dual-luciferase
reporter gene assay was used to verify the target relationship between
microRNA-101 (miR-101) and mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1
(MKP-1). The levels of miR-101, p-p38, and MKP-1 in the aorta were detected by
qPCR and western blotting. The anti-inflammatory effect of geniposide in vitro
was investigated in the RAW264.7 macrophage cell line. A miR-101 mimic and an
inhibitor were used to study the effect of miR-101 on regulating the expression
of the target MKP-1 and the downstream inflammatory cytokines. Geniposide
treatment reduced lipid levels and plaque size in the mouse model of AS.
Geniposide downregulated miR-101 to upregulate MKP-1 and suppress the production 
of inflammatory factors in vitro and in vivo. Geniposide suppressed the levels of
inflammatory factors in the presence of the miR-101 mimic, whereas no obvious
effect was observed in the miR-101 inhibitor group. We concluded that geniposide 
reduced the plaque size and alleviated inflammatory injury in ApoE-/- mice and
RAW264.7 cells. The specific anti-inflammatory mechanism was related to the
miR-101/ MKP-1/p38 signaling pathway.
EOF
Non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS) is a wheat associated disorder diagnosed by 
exclusion diagnosis. This review was conducted to collect current information
about NCGS, clinical and pathologic manifestations, and problems faced by health 
professionals. It also highlights the obstacles faced when adopting a gluten-free
diet. A search of international literature was conducted through PubMed and
Google Scholar till September 2017. The heterogeneous groups of patients affected
by NCGS are composed of a number of subgroups, and each demonstrates different
clinical and pathological manifestations. The presence of certain underlying
factors can be utilised to identify susceptible individuals, namely, incidence of
food allergies in infancy, anti-gliadin IgG-antibodies, activation test for flow 
cytometric basophils, atopy, and increased intraepithelial duodenal eosinophil
presence. There is urgent need for reliable biomarkers to decisively diagnose and
differentiate NCGS from related disorders. Patients willing to adopt gluten-free 
products have to choose from products which have high fat and sugar content.
EOF
SFA intakes have decreased in recent years, both in Ireland and across other
European countries; however a large proportion of the population are still not
meeting the SFA recommendation of &lt;10% of total energy (TE). High SFA intakes 
have been associated with increased CVD and type-2 diabetes (T2D) risk, due to
alterations in cholesterol homoeostasis and adipose tissue inflammation. PUFA, in
particular EPA and DHA, have been associated with health benefits, including
anti-inflammatory effects. It is well established that dietary fat composition
plays an important role in biological processes. A recent review of evidence
suggests that replacement of SFA with PUFA has potential to reduce risk of CVD
and T2D. The public health and molecular impact of EPA and DHA have been
well-characterised, while less is known of effects of α-linolenic acid (ALA). The
current dietary guideline for ALA is 0·5% TE; however evidence from
supplementation trials suggests that benefit is observed at levels greater than 2
g/d (0·6-1% TE). This review highlights the gap in the evidence base relating to 
effects of the replacement of SFA with ALA, identifying the need for randomised
controlled trials to determine the optimal dose of ALA substitution to define the
efficacy of dietary fat modification with ALA.
EOF
The evidence linking low-carbohydrate diets (LCD) to CVD is controversial, and
results from epidemiological studies are inconsistent. We aimed to assess the
relationship between LCD patterns and coronary artery Ca (CAC) scores from
computed tomography in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis cohort. Our
sample included 5614 men and women free of clinical CVD at baseline (2000-2002), 
who had a FFQ, a baseline measure and ≥1 measure of CAC during follow-up. We
excluded those with implausible energy intake or daily physical activity. The
overall, animal-based and plant-based LCD scores were calculated based on intakes
of macronutrients. Relative risk regression and robust regression models were
used to examine the cross-sectional and longitudinal relationship between LCD
score quintile and CAC outcomes, after adjustment for multiple cardiovascular
risk factors. The mean age of participants was 63 years. The median intakes of
total carbohydrate, fat and protein were 53·7, 30·5 and 15·6 % energy/d,
respectively. Among 2892 participants with zero CAC scores at baseline, 264
developed positive scores during 2·4-year follow-up (11-59 months). Among those
with positive scores at baseline, the median increase in CAC was 47 units over
the course of follow-up. The overall, the animal-based and the plant-based LCD
scores were not associated with CAC prevalence, incidence and progression. In
conclusion, diets low in carbohydrate and high in fat and/or protein, regardless 
of the sources of protein and fat, were not associated with higher levels of CAC,
a validated predictor of cardiovascular events, in this large multi-ethnic
cohort.
EOF
Background Vascular endothelial cell (EC) alignment in the direction of flow is
an adaptive response that protects against aortic diseases, such as
atherosclerosis. The Rho GTP ases are known to regulate this alignment. Herein,
we analyze the effect of ARHGAP 18 on the regulation of EC alignment and examine 
the effect of ARHGAP 18 deficiency on the development of atherosclerosis in mice.
Methods and Results We used in vitro analysis of ECs under flow conditions
together with apolipoprotein E-/- Arhgap 18-/- double-mutant mice to study the
function of ARHGAP 18 in a high-fat diet-induced model of atherosclerosis.
Depletion of ARHGAP 18 inhibited the alignment of ECs in the direction of flow
and promoted inflammatory phenotype, as evidenced by disrupted junctions and
increased expression of nuclear factor-κB and intercellular adhesion molecule-1
and decreased endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Mice with double deletion in
ARHGAP 18 and apolipoprotein E and fed a high-fat diet show early onset of
atherosclerosis, with lesions developing in atheroprotective regions. Conclusions
ARHGAP 18 is a protective gene that maintains EC alignments in the direction of
flow. Deletion of ARHGAP 18 led to loss of EC ability to align and promoted
atherosclerosis development.
EOF
The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has increased with the
incidence of obesity; however, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In this
study, high-resolution metabolomics (HRM) along with transcriptomics were applied
on animal models to draw a mechanistic insight of NAFLD. Wild type (WT) and
catalase knockout (CKO) mice were fed with normal fat diet (NFD) or high fat diet
(HFD) to identify the changes in metabolic and transcriptomic profiles caused by 
catalase gene deletion in correspondence with HFD. Integrated omics analysis
revealed that cholic acid and 3β, 7α-dihydroxy-5-cholestenoate along with cyp7b1 
gene involved in primary bile acid biosynthesis were strongly affected by HFD.
The analysis also showed that CKO significantly changed
all-trans-5,6-epoxy-retinoic acid or all-trans-4-hydroxy-retinoic acid and
all-trans-4-oxo-retinoic acid along with cyp3a41b gene in retinol metabolism, and
α/γ-linolenic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid and thromboxane A2 along with ptgs1 and
tbxas1 genes in linolenic acid metabolism. Our results suggest that dysregulated 
primary bile acid biosynthesis may contribute to liver steatohepatitis, while
up-regulated retinol metabolism and linolenic acid metabolism may have
contributed to oxidative stress and inflammatory phenomena in our NAFLD model
created using CKO mice fed with HFD.
EOF
Background: The mechanisms whereby neuroinflammation negatively affects
neuronal function in the hypothalamus are not clear. Our previous study
determined that obesity-mediated chronic inflammation elicits sex-specific
impairment in reproductive function via reduction in spine density in GnRH
neurons. Neuroinflammation and subsequent decrease in GnRH neuron spine density
was specific for male mice, while protection in females was independent of
ovarian estrogens.METHODS: To examine if neuroinflammation-induced cytokines can 
directly regulate GnRH gene expression, herein we examined signaling pathways and
mechanisms in males in vivo and in GnRH-expressing cell line, GT1-7.
RESULTS: GnRH neurons express cytokine receptors, and chronic or acute
neuroinflammation represses GnRH gene expression in vivo. Leukemia inhibitory
factor (LIF) in particular represses GnRH expression in GT1-7 cells, while other 
cytokines do not. STAT3 and MAPK pathways are activated following LIF treatment, 
but only MAPK pathway, specifically p38α, is sufficient to repress GnRH gene. LIF
induces cFOS that represses GnRH gene via the -1793 site in the enhancer region. 
In vivo, following high fat diet, cFOS is induced in GnRH neurons and neurons
juxtaposed to the leaky blood brain barrier of the organum vasculosum of the
lamina terminalis, but not in the neurons further away.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the increase in LIF due to
neuroinflammation induces cFOS and represses GnRH gene. Therefore, in addition to
synaptic changes in GnRH neurons, neuroinflammatory cytokines directly regulate
gene expression and reproductive function, and the specificity for neuronal
targets may stem from the proximity to the fenestrated capillaries. 
EOF
AIM: Maternal obesity and improper nutrition predispose offspring to chronic
metabolic diseases. Although the frequency of these diseases increases with
aging, the effect of a maternal high-fat diet on aged offspring remains elusive.
MAIN METHODS: C57BL/6J female mice were fed a high-fat (HF) diet or a control
(CON) diet and then mated. All offspring remained with their birth dam until
weaning at 3 weeks. After weaning, the offspring from the HF and CON diet-fed
dams were given either the HF diet or CON diet, which resulted in four groups:
CON/CON, CON/HF, HF/CON, and HF/HF. All mice were immunized with ovalbumin and
then sacrificed at 70 weeks.
KEY FINDINGS: The body weights in offspring from dam exposed to a HF diet were
significantly higher than those in offspring from dam fed a CON diet in the early
stage of life but then became lower in the later stage of life. The serum
adiponectin levels were lower in offspring from dam exposed to a HF diet and were
correlated with adiposity measured by visceral and subcutaneous fat mass.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was much more severe in the livers of offspring
from the maternal HF groups. In particular, lobular inflammation and fibrosis
were prominent in the HF/HF group. Regarding immunological parameters,
senescence-associated T cells were increased, and natural killer T cells were
decreased by the effect of both maternal and offspring HF diet.
SIGNIFICANCE: We have demonstrated that a maternal high-fat diet may accelerate
the adipo-immunologic aging process.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: We investigated the impact of subchronic low-dose exposure to
nonylphenol (NP) on depression-like behaviors and synaptic morphological
plasticity in the context of a high-sucrose/high-fat diet in rats.
METHODS: Male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into 8 groups
(n = 10 per group), as follows: rats fed a normal-diet (ND), as the control
(C-ND); rats fed a normal diet and gavaged with NP at a dose of 0.02 mg/kg/day
(NP-L-ND), 0.2 mg/kg/day (NP-M-ND) or 2 mg/kg/day (NP-H-ND); rats fed a
high-sucrose/high-fat diet (HSHFD), as the HSHFD control (C-HSHFD); rats fed a
HSHFD and gavaged with NP at a dose of 0.02 mg/kg/day (NP-L-HSHFD), 0.2 mg/kg/day
(NP-M-HSHFD) or 2 mg/kg/day (NP-H-HSHFD). Elevated plus maze was used to evaluate
anxiety behavior. Open field test was used to evaluate locomotor activity.
Cyclooxygenase-2 expression in hippocampal tissue was measured by
immunohistochemistry. The ultrastructure of hippocampal mitochondria and the
synaptic plasticity were observed by transmission electron microscopy.
RESULTS: Significant interactions between HSHFD and NP-H were observed, reflected
by the time spent exploring the open arms, time spent in the center area,
distance traveled in the center area and total distance traveled (p <  0.05).
Exposure to NP-H-HSHFD resulted in swelling of the mitochondria, associated with 
an increased number of disordered and partially disrupted cristae compared with
the control group. Synaptic interface curvatures and postsynaptic density
thickness decreased as the NP dose increased among the treatment groups.
Co-exposure to HSHFD and NP showed an increase in synaptic cleft width compared
with the HSHFD-only and NP-only exposure groups (p < 0.05). COX-2 expression and 
integral optical density value increased as the NP dose increased among the NP
treatment groups (p <  0.05).
CONCLUSION: Subchronic low-dose exposure to NP might induce alterations in
depression-like behaviors, synaptic morphological plasticity and COX-2 expression
in the hippocampus. Co-exposure to NP and HSHFD had significantly more
dissimilarities.
EOF
Calcium (Ca) intakes may affect cardiovascular disease risk by altering body
composition (body weight and fat) and serum lipid profile, but results have been 
inconsistent and the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. The effects
of dietary Ca on body composition and lipid metabolism were examined in rats.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed high-fat, high-energy diets containing (g/kg)
low (0.75Ca, 0.86 ± 0.05; 2Ca, 2.26 ± 0.02), normal (5Ca, 5.55 ± 0.08) or high
(10Ca, 11.03 ± 0.17; 20Ca, 21.79 ± 0.15) Ca for 10 weeks. Rats fed the lowest Ca 
diet (0.75Ca) had lower (p < 0.05) body weight and fat mass compared to other
groups. Rats fed the high Ca diets had lower serum total and LDL cholesterol
compared to rats fed normal or low Ca. Liver total cholesterol was lower in rats 
fed high compared to low Ca. In general, liver mRNA expression of genes involved 
in cholesterol uptake from the circulation (Ldlr), cholesterol synthesis (Hmgcr
and Hmgcs1), fatty acid oxidation (Cpt2) and cholesterol esterification (Acat2)
were higher in rats fed higher Ca. Apparent digestibility of total trans,
saturated, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids was lower in rats fed 
the high compared to the low Ca diets, with the largest effects seen on trans and
saturated fatty acids. Fecal excretion of cholesterol and total bile acids was
highest in rats fed the highest Ca diet (20Ca). The results suggest little effect
of dietary Ca on body composition unless Ca intakes are very low. Decreased bile 
acid reabsorption and reduced absorption of neutral sterols and saturated and
trans fatty acids may contribute to the better serum lipid profile in rats fed
higher Ca.
EOF
A maternal high-fat/sucrose diet, in the presence of maternal obesity, can
program increased susceptibility to obesity and metabolic disease in offspring.
In particular, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease risk is associated with poor
maternal nutrition and obesity status, which may manifest via alterations in gut 
microbiota. Here, we report that in a preclinical model of diet-induced maternal 
obesity, maternal supplementation of a high-fat/sucrose diet with the prebiotic
oligofructose improves glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and hepatic
steatosis in offspring following a long-term high-fat/sucrose dietary challenge
compared with offspring of untreated dams. These improvements are associated with
alterations in gut microbial composition and serum inflammatory profiles in early
life and improvements in inflammatory and fatty-acid gene expression profiles in 
tissues. Serum metabolomics analysis highlights potential metabolic links between
the gut microbiota and the degree of steatosis, including alterations in 1-carbon
metabolism. Overall, our data suggest that maternal prebiotic intake protects
offspring against hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance following 21 wk of
high fat/sucrose diet, which is in part due to alterations in gut
microbiota.-Paul, H. A., Collins, K. H., Nicolucci, A. C., Urbanski, S. J., Hart,
D. A., Vogel, H. J., Reimer, R. A. Maternal prebiotic supplementation reduces
fatty liver development in offspring through altered microbial and metabolomic
profiles in rats.
EOF
Background: Increasing protein content of the diet might be an effective strategy
to preserve muscle mass in older adults undergoing caloric restriction, thereby
preserving muscle function.
Methods : Ninety-six older adults (70.3 ± 3.7 years, 74% women, 27% African
American) with obesity (35.4 ± 3.3 kg/m2; 47% total body fat) were randomized to 
a 6-month higher protein (providing 1.2-1.5 g/kg/d) weight loss (WL) program,
utilizing the Medifast 4&2&1 Plan, or to weight stability (WS). Dual-energy x-ray
absorptiometry-acquired total body mass and composition, and fast gait speed over
400 m was assessed at baseline, 3, and 6 months.
Results: At baseline, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry-acquired total body, fat, 
and lean masses were 95.9 ± 14.6, 44.6 ± 7.6, and 48.7 ± 9.5 kg, respectively,
and 400-m gait speed was 1.17 ± 0.20 m/s. Total body mass was significantly
reduced in the WL group (-8.17 [-9.56, -6.77] kg) compared with the WS group
(-1.16 [-2.59, 0.27] kg), with 87% of total mass lost as fat (WL: -7.1 [-8.1,
-6.1] kg; -15.9% change from baseline). A differential treatment effect was not
observed for change in lean mass (WL: -0.81 [-1.40, -0.23] kg vs WS: -0.24
[-0.85, 0.36] kg). Four-hundred-meter gait speed was also unchanged from baseline
although trends suggest slightly increased gait speed in the WL group [0.01
(-0.02, 0.04) m/s] compared with the WS group [-0.02 (-0.05, 0.01) m/s].
Conclusion: Intentional weight loss using a high-protein diet is effective in
producing significant total body mass and fat mass loss, while helping preserve
lean body mass and mobility, in relatively high-functioning older adults with
obesity.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: We aim to investigate whether C21, a selective angiotensin type 2
receptor agonist, can exert protective effects on pancreatic β-cells through
activation of antiapoptosis and autophagy.
METHODS: The high-fat diet-induced obese rats (HFDs) were under C21 treatment for
4 weeks.
RESULTS: C21 treatment decreased the fasting glucose levels and improved β-cell
insulin secretory function in the HFD group. Hematoxylin and eosin staining and
electron microscopy indicated that the islet morphology was improved in the
C21-treated obese rats, which was associated with increased levels of the key
transcription factor PDX1, glucose sensing, and uptaking protein GCK and GLUT2,
respectively. C21 treatment exerted antiapoptotic effects through decreasing the 
levels of apoptotic marker Caspase-3 while increasing the levels of antiapoptotic
markers AKT, p-AKT, and BCL2. C21 treatment also induced autophagosome formation 
in the mitochondria of the β-cells in the HFD group accompanied by increased
levels of autophagy markers, LC-3B and Beclin-1.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggested C21 treatment decreased the fasting glucose
level and protected β-cell function in the HFD-induced obese rat model, which in 
part through activation of antiapoptotic and autophagy processes. This study
provided preclinical evidence for the utilization of C21 in the treatment of type
2 diabetes.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is now a leading cause of chronic liver 
disease, and there is currently no available treatment strategy. Interleukin-22
(IL-22) has been recognized as a promising agent for alleviating NAFLD, but the
efficacy of IL-22 is far from satisfactory because safe dose of IL-22 elicited
limited improvement, whereas higher concentration might induce serious side
effects and off-target toxicities. Thus, targeted and sustained expression of
IL-22 in the liver is necessary. To meet the challenge, we elaborately developed 
a novel polymetformin carrier by conjugating biguanide to chitosan, termed
chitosan-metformin (CM), which could exert advanced gene delivery efficiency and 
possess intrinsic therapeutic efficacy from metformin for NAFLD. CM accompanied
with penetratin and DSPE-PEG2000 could self-assemble to form stable nanocomplexes
with IL-22 gene via electrostatic interaction. This nanoparticle (CDPIA) exerted 
desirable particle size at ∼100 nm, fine morphology, and efficient cellular
internalization. Furthermore, CDPIA also demonstrated a unique superiority in
endosomal escape capacity and satisfactory biocompatibility as well as
predominant liver accumulation. Most importantly, CDPIA distinctly alleviated
hepatic steatosis, restored insulin sensitivity, and improved metabolic syndrome 
in high-fat-diet-fed mice model. This liver-targeted delivery of IL-22 activated 
STAT3/Erk1/2 and Nrf2/SOD1 signaling transductions as well as modulated
lipid-metabolism-related gene expression. These findings altogether demonstrated 
that the polymetformin and penetratin-based hybrid nanoparticles could be
exploited as a novel safe and efficient strategy for the improvement of NAFLD.
EOF
SCOPE: Enhanced adiposity and metabolic inflammation are major features of
obesity associated with altered gut microbiota and intestinal barrier. How these 
metabolic outcomes can be impacted by milk polar lipids (MPL), naturally
containing 25% of sphingomyelin, is investigated in mice fed a mixed high-fat
(HF) diet .
METHODS AND RESULTS: Male C57Bl/6 mice receive a HF-diet devoid of MPL (21% fat, 
mainly palm oil, in chow), or supplemented with 1.1% or 1.6% of MPL (HF-MPL1;
HF-MPL2) via a total-lipid extract from butterserum concentrate for 8 weeks.
HF-MPL2 mice gain less weight versus HF (p < 0.01). Diets do not impact plasma
markers of inflammation but in the liver, HF-MPL2 tends to decrease hepatic gene 
expression of macrophage marker F4/80 versus HF-MPL1 (p = 0.06). Colonic crypt
depth is the maximum in HF-MPL2 (p < 0.05). In cecal microbiota, HF-MPL1
increases Bifidobacterium animalis versus HF (p < 0.05). HF-MPL2 decreases
Lactobacillus reuteri (p < 0.05), which correlates negatively with the fecal loss
of milk sphingomyelin-specific fatty acids (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In mice fed a mixed HF diet, MPL can limit HF-induced body weight
gain and modulate gut physiology and the abundance in microbiota of bacteria of
metabolic interest. This supports further exploration of how residual unabsorbed 
lipids reaching the colon can impact HF-induced metabolic disorders.
EOF
KEY POINTS: Intracerebroventricular insulin increased sympathetic nerve activity 
(SNA) and baroreflex control of SNA and heart rate more dramatically in obese
male rats; in obese females, the responses were abolished. In obese males, the
enhanced lumbar SNA (LSNA) responses were associated with reduced tonic
inhibition of LSNA by neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the PVN. However, PVN NPY injection
decreased LSNA similarly in obesity prone/obesity resistant/control rats.
Collectively, these results suggest that NPY inputs were decreased. In obese
females, NPY inhibition in the PVN was maintained. Moreover, NPY neurons in the
arcuate nucleus became resistant to the inhibitory effects of insulin. A high-fat
diet did not alter arcuate NPY neuronal InsR expression in males or females.
Obesity-induced 'selective sensitization' of the brain to the sympathoexcitatory 
effects of insulin and leptin may contribute to elevated basal SNA, and therefore
hypertension development, in males with obesity. These data may explain in part
why obesity increases SNA less in women compared to men.
ABSTRACT: Obesity increases sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) in men but not
women; however, the mechanisms are unknown. We investigated whether
intracerebroventricular insulin infusion increases SNA more in obese male than
female rats and if sex differences are mediated by changes in tonic inhibition of
SNA by neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). When consuming 
a high-fat diet, obesity prone (OP) rats accrued excess fat, whereas obesity
resistant (OR) rats maintained adiposity as in rats eating a control (CON) diet. 
Insulin increased lumbar SNA (LSNA) similarly in CON/OR males and females under
urethane anaesthesia. The LSNA response was magnified in OP males but abolished
in OP females. In males, blockade of PVN NPY Y1 receptors with BIBO3304 increased
LSNA in CON/OR rats but not OP rats. Yet, PVN nanoinjections of NPY decreased
LSNA similarly between groups. Thus, tonic PVN NPY inhibition of LSNA may be lost
in obese males as a result of a decrease in NPY inputs. By contrast, in females, 
PVN BIBO3304 increased LSNA similarly in OP, OR and CON rats. After insulin, PVN 
BIBO3304 failed to increase LSNA in CON/OR females but increased LSNA in OP
females, suggesting that with obesity NPY neurons become resistant to the
inhibitory effects of insulin. These sex differences were not associated with
changes in arcuate NPY neuronal insulin receptor expression. Collectively, these 
data reveal a marked sex difference in the impact of obesity on the
sympathoexcitatory actions of insulin and implicate sexually dimorphic changes in
NPY inhibition of SNA in the PVN as one mechanism.
EOF
In heart failure and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), the majority of patients have
hypomagnesemia, and magnesium (Mg) supplementation has improved cardiac function 
and insulin resistance. Recently, we have shown that DM can cause cardiac
diastolic dysfunction (DD). Therefore, we hypothesized that Mg supplementation
would improve diastolic function in DM. High-fat diet-induced diabetic mouse
hearts showed increased cardiac DD and hypertrophy. Mice with DM showed a
significantly increased E/e' ratio (the ratio of transmitral Doppler early
filling velocity [E] to tissue Doppler early diastolic mitral annular velocity
[e']) in the echocardiogram, left ventricular end diastolic volume (LVEDV),
incidence of DD, left ventricular posterior wall thickness in diastole (PWTd),
and ratio of heart weight to tibia length (HW/TL) when compared with controls. DM
mice also had hypomagnesemia. Ventricular cardiomyocytes isolated from DM mice
exhibited decreased mitochondrial ATP production, a 1.7- ± 0.2-fold increase of
mitochondrial ROS, depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential, and
mitochondrial Ca2+ overload. Dietary Mg administration (50 mg/ml in the drinking 
water) for 6 weeks increased plasma Mg concentration and improved cardiac
function. At the cellular level, Mg improved mitochondrial function with
increased ATP, decreased mitochondrial ROS and Ca2+ overload, and repolarized
mitochondrial membrane potential. In conclusion, Mg supplementation improved
mitochondrial function, reduced oxidative stress, and prevented DD in DM.
EOF
Obese individuals are often at risk for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and cardiovascular diseases such as
angina, thereby requiring combination therapies for their comorbidities.
Ranolazine is a second-line antianginal agent that also improves glycemia, and
our aim was to determine whether ranolazine modifies the progression of
obesity-induced NAFLD. Twelve-week-old C57BL/6J male mice were fed a low-fat or
high-fat diet for 10 weeks and then treated for 30 days with either vehicle
control or ranolazine (50 mg/kg via daily s.c. injection). Glycemia was monitored
via glucose/pyruvate/insulin tolerance testing, whereas in vivo metabolism was
assessed via indirect calorimetry. Hepatic triacylglycerol content was quantified
via the Bligh and Dyer method. Consistent with previous reports, ranolazine
treatment reversed obesity-induced glucose intolerance, which was associated with
reduced body weight and hepatic steatosis, as well as increased hepatic pyruvate 
dehydrogenase (PDH) activity. Ranolazine's actions on hepatic PDH activity may be
directly mediated, as ranolazine treatment reduced PDH phosphorylation
(indicative of increased PDH activity) in HepG2 cells. Therefore, in addition to 
mitigating angina, ranolazine also reverses NAFLD, which may contribute to its
documented glucose-lowering actions, situating ranolazine as an ideal antianginal
therapy for obese patients comorbid for NAFLD and T2D.
EOF
Obesity, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes, three strongly interrelated
diseases, are associated to increased morbidity and mortality worldwide. The
pathogenesis of obesity-associated disorders is still under study. Secreted
protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) is a matricellular glycoprotein
expressed in many cell types including adipocytes, parenchymal, and
non-parenchymal hepatic cells and pancreatic cells. Studies have demonstrated
that SPARC inhibits adipogenesis and promotes insulin resistance; in addition,
circulating SPARC levels were positively correlated with body mass index in obese
individuals. Therefore, SPARC is being proposed as a key factor in the
pathogenesis of obesity-associated disorders. The aim of this study is to
elucidate the role of SPARC in glucose homeostasis. We show here that SPARC null 
(SPARC-/-) mice displayed an abnormal insulin-regulated glucose metabolism.
SPARC-/- mice presented an increased adipose tissue deposition and an impaired
glucose homeostasis as animals aged. In addition, the absence of SPARC worsens
high-fat diet-induced diabetes in mice. Interestingly, although SPARC-/- mice on 
high-fat diet were sensitive to insulin they showed an impaired insulin secretion
capacity. Of note, the expression of glucose transporter 2 in islets of SPARC-/- 
mice was dramatically reduced. The present study provides the first evidence that
deleted SPARC expression causes diabetes in mice. Thus, SPARC deficient mice
constitute a valuable model for studies concerning obesity and its related
metabolic complications, including diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND: There is currently no scientific evidence supporting the use of
specific diets in the management of multiple sclerosis (MS); the strongest
dietary associations are observed with vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acid
supplementation. Despite this, there are many websites that provide advice or
suggestions about using various dietary approaches to control symptoms or disease
progression.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the dietary advice for the
symptomatic management of MS available on the internet.
METHODS: This study was a systematic review of webpages that provided dietary
advice for the management of MS. Webpages were selected from an internet search
conducted in November 2016 using Google, Yahoo, and Bing search engines and the
search term "MS diet." The first two pages of results from each search engine
were included for the initial assessment. Duplicates were removed. Data extracted
from websites included specific advice relating to diet and its rationale and the
citation of supporting scientific literature. Authorship and credential
information were reviewed to assess webpage quality.
RESULTS: We included 32 webpages in the final assessment. The webpages made a
wide variety of specific recommendations regarding dietary patterns and
individual foods to help manage MS. The most common dietary pattern advised on
these webpages was the low-fat, high-fiber balanced diet, followed by the
low-saturated fat diet, near-vegetarian Swank diet, and the Paleo diet. The main 
categories of individual foods or nutrients suggested for addition to the diet
were: supplements (especially omega-3 and vitamin D), fruits, vegetables, and
lean protein. In contrast, the most commonly recommended for removal were
saturated fats, dairy, gluten-containing grains, and refined sugar. These
recommendations were often accompanied by rationale relating to how the
particular food or nutrient may affect the development, prevalence and symptoms
of MS; however, very little of this information is supported by the current
scientific evidence between diet and MS. Only 9 webpages provided full authorship
including credential information.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a wide variety of Web-based dietary advice, which in some
cases is contradictory. In most cases, this advice is the result of peoples'
individual experiences and has not been scientifically tested. How people living 
with MS use this information is not known. These findings highlight the important
role health professionals can play in assisting people living with MS in their
health information-seeking behaviors.
EOF
Objective- Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) transformation to an
osteochondrogenic phenotype is an initial step toward arterial calcification,
which is highly correlated with cardiovascular disease-related morbidity and
mortality. TLR2 (Toll-like receptor 2) plays a pathogenic role in the development
of vascular diseases, but its regulation in calcification of arteries and VSMCs
remains unclear. We postulate that TLR2-mediated inflammation participates in
mediating atherosclerotic arterial calcification and VSMC calcification. Approach
and Result s-We found that ApoE-/-Tlr2-/- genotype in mice suppressed high-fat
diet-induced atherosclerotic plaques formation during initiation but
progressively lost its preventative capacity, compared with ApoE-/- mice.
However, TLR2 deficiency prohibited high-fat diet-induced advanced
atherosclerotic calcification, chondrogenic metaplasia, and OPG (osteoprotegerin)
downregulation in the calcified lesions. Incubation of VSMCs in a calcifying
medium revealed that TLR2 agonists significantly increased VSMC calcification and
chondrogenic differentiation. Furthermore, TLR2 deficiency suppressed TLR2
agonist-mediated VSMC chondrogenic differentiation and consequent calcification, 
which were triggered via the concerted actions of IL (interleukin)-6-mediated
RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand) induction and OPG
suppression. Inhibition experiments with pharmacological inhibitors demonstrated 
that IL-6-mediated RANKL induction is signaled by p38 and ERK1/2 pathways,
whereas the OPG is suppressed via NF-κB (nuclear factor κB) dependent signaling
mediated by ERK1/2. Conclusions- We concluded that on ligand binding, TLR2
activates p38 and ERK1/2 signaling to selectively modulate the upregulation of
IL-6-mediated RANKL and downregulation of OPG. These signaling pathways act in
concert to induce chondrogenic transdifferentiation of VSMCs, which in turn leads
to vascular calcification during the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
EOF
Both inflammation and fibrosis are essential in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Taking inflammatory cytokines and signaling pathways
as vital mediators, the inhibition of inflammation response may be an effective
approach for treating NAFLD. a19, a resveratrol-curcumin hybrid, has been
confirmed to exhibit a good anti-inflammatory activity by preventing LPS-induced 
inflammatory response in macrophages. The study aims to evaluate the protective
effect of a19 on high fat diet (HFD)-induced NAFLD. In the present study,
compound a19 significantly inhibited the HFD-induced lipid accumulation, liver
injury, liver inflammation and fibrosis in mouse model. In vitro, a19 obviously
suppressed the expression of PA-induced inflammatory cytokines and fibrosis
markers mRNA. Meanwhile, the anti-inflammatory effect of a19 was found to be
associated with the inhibition of ERK signal pathway. These results indicated
that a19 can be potentially used as a protective agent for NAFLD.
EOF
There is an inadequacy of relevant animal models to study non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis. Here, we co-administered thioacetamide (TH) 
along with fast food diet (FFD) to C57BL/6 J mice for eight weeks. The treatments
were: a) standard chow, SC b) FFD c) FFD + TH [75 mg/kg], FTH d) SC + TH
[150 mg/kg], STH for 8 weeks. In in-vitro model, Hep3B cells were exposed to
palmitic acid (PA) and TH viz. PA (0.25 mM) + TH (25 mM), PA (0.5 mM) alone and
TH (50 mM) alone for 12 h, later supernatant media was transferred to LX-2 cells,
for another 12 h. Molecular and cellular events related to inflammation,
fibrosis, collagen deposition were studied. The FTH mice featured hepatic
inflammation, severe diffuse fibrosis, and collagen deposition, which were less
severe in FF & STH groups. In FTH group the protein expressions of α-SMA, TGF-ß, 
Col1 A1, CYP2E1, were up-regulated as compared to the FF group. The in-vivo
findings were complemented in the LX-2 and Hep3B cells. The protein expressions
of inflammatory and cellular injury markers were significantly higher in PA + TH 
exposed LX-2 cells. This novel model manifested hepatic inflammation and fibrosis
in just eight weeks, which may be exploited for rapid screening of novel
anti-NAFLD and liver anti-fibrotic agents.
EOF
Obesity is underpinned by both genetic and environmental factors, including a
high-saturated-fat diet. Some mice develop diet-induced obesity (DIO), but others
remain diet resistant (DR) despite intake of the same high-saturated-fat diet, a 
phenomenon that mimics characteristics of the human obese phenotype.
Microbiota-colon-brain axis regulation is important for energy metabolism and
cognition. Using DIO and DR mouse models, this study aimed to examine gut
microbiota, colonic inflammation and cognitive function to elucidate the role of 
microbiota-gut-brain regulation in DIO. C57Bl6/J mice fed a chronic
saturated-palmitic-acid diet for 22 weeks showed significant body weight gain
differences, with the top one third gaining 48% heavier body weight than the
lower one third. There was significant reduction in gut microbiota richness and
diversity in DIO mice but not in DR mice. At the phylum level, DIO mice had
increased abundance of Firmicutes and Antinobacteria, and decreased abundance of 
Bacterioides and Proteobacteria in gut microbiota. DIO mice exhibited reduced
tight junction proteins, increased plasma endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 
increased inflammation in the colon and liver. Recognition memory and spatial
memory were impaired in DIO mice, associated with decreased Bacteroidetes.
Further examination showed that hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor was
significantly decreased in DIO mice (vs. DR). Conversely, DR mice showed no
changes in the above parameters measured. Therefore, gut microbiota, colon
inflammation and circulating LPS may play a major role in the development of the 
obese phenotype and cognitive decline associated with a chronic
high-saturated-palmitic-acid diet.
EOF
BACKGROUND:: The objective of this study was to assess military rations. Military
rations must provide military personnel with suitable nutrition, as high-quality 
nutrition is crucial for promoting health.
AIM:: This systematic review provides information regarding the nutritional
design of military rations according to energy and protein intake and
supplements.
METHODS:: A systematic search was conducted for articles published to date
regarding the nutritional needs involved in a military diet for an active
population of either gender, ranging from 18 to 60 years old, without excluding
material by year, type of document, location, or author. The pertinent articles
found were published from 1994 to 2017.
RESULTS:: Physical activity and environmental factors directly affect calculating
energy needs and carbohydrate intake when designing military rations. However,
the results showed no influence on protein, fat and/or sodium intake.
Furthermore, the search revealed that military populations have a high intake of 
dietary supplements; it is thus worth considering their incorporation into
campaign rations.
CONCLUSION:: Military personnel macro- and micro-nutrient needs depend on
physical activity and nutrient intake measurement methodologies. The data
regarding military personnel dietary supplement consumption indicated that this
is a niche worth considering when designing military rations. Research on
nutritional needs for military rations could concentrate on optimizing the amount
of macro- and micro-nutrients and their biological value, according to physical
activity, as well as maintaining their sensory quality, safety and shelf life
using different processing technologies.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Bariatric surgery, such as vertical sleeve gastrectomy
(VSG), is the most effective long-term treatment for obesity. However, there are 
conflicting reports on the effect of bariatric surgery on inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD). Bariatric surgery increases bile acid concentrations, which can
decrease inflammation by signaling through the bile acid receptor, TGR5. TGR5
signaling protects against chemically induced colitis in mice. VSG increases
circulating bile acid concentrations to increase TGR5 signaling, which
contributes to improved metabolic regulation after VSG. Therefore, we
investigated the effect of VSG on chemically induced colitis development and the 
role of TGR5 in this context.
METHODS: VSG or sham surgery was performed in high fat diet-fed male Tgr5+/+ and 
Tgr5-/- littermates. Sham-operated mice were food restricted to match their body 
weight to VSG-operated mice. Colitis was induced with 2.5% dextran sodium sulfate
(DSS) in water post-operatively. Body weight, energy intake, fecal scoring, colon
histopathology, colonic markers of inflammation, goblet cell counts, and colonic 
microRNA-21 levels were assessed.
RESULTS: VSG decreased body weight independently of genotype. Consistent with
previous work, genetic ablation of TGR5 increased the severity of DSS-induced
colitis. Notably, despite the effect of VSG to decrease body weight and increase 
TGR5 signaling, VSG increased the severity of DSS-induced colitis. VSG-induced
increases in colitis were associated with increased colonic expression of TNF-α, 
IL-6, MCP-1, and microRNA-21.
CONCLUSIONS: While our data demonstrate that TGR5 protects against colitis, they 
also demonstrate that VSG potentiates chemically induced colitis in mice. These
data suggest that individuals undergoing VSG may be at increased risk for
developing colitis; however, further study is needed.
EOF
Berberine (BBR) is the main active ingredient of a traditional Chinese herb
Coptis chinensis. It has been reported to exhibit beneficial effects in treating 
diabetes and obesity. However, the underlying mechanism has not been fully
elucidated. Adipose tissue fibrosis is a hallmark of obesity-associated adipose
tissue dysfunction. HIF-1α plays a key role in adipose tissue fibrosis, which
closely linked to metabolic dysfunction in obese state. We hypothesized that BBR 
may alleviate obesity-induced adipose tissue fibrosis and associated metabolic
dysfunction through inhibition of HIF-1α. To test this hypothesis, we treated
high fat diet (HFD) feeding mice with different dose of BBR (100 mg/kg, 200
mg/kg, and 300 mg/kg) for 8 weeks. We found that BBR treatment greatly decreased 
the body weight gain and reduced insulin resistance induced by HFD. Data also
revealed that BBR improved histologic fibrous of epididymal white adipose tissue 
(eWAT) and was accompanied with inhibition of the abnormal synthesis and
deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, such as collagen and
fibronectin. We also found that BBR treatment suppressed the expression of HIF-1α
and decreased the mRNA expression of LOX in epididymal adipose tissue, which
plays a key role in fibrosis development. Taken together, these results suggest
that BBR can regulate metabolic homeostasis and suppress adipose tissue fibrosis 
through inhibiting the expression of HIF-1α.
EOF
Background: Spleen-Kidney Supplementing Formula (SKSF), composed of 6 raw Chinese
herbs and proposed based on the therapeutic principle of supplementing
spleen-kidney and clearing the extra heat of stomach-lung, is effective in the
treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Aim: This study aims to investigate the mechanism of SKSF to alleviate renal
fibrosis in diabetic rats.
Methods: T2DM model was induced by high-fat diet and multiple injections of
low-dose streptozotocin. After 8-week intervention, samples were collected for
detection.
Results: SKSF decreased fasting blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin A1c, blood
urea nitrogen, uric acid, urea, 24-hour urine protein, and KW/BW ratio, while it 
increased creatinine clearance rate of T2DM rats. Meanwhile, SKSF attenuated the 
renal fibrosis and improved the morphology and structure of renal tissue.
Furthermore, SKSF significantly reduced the expression level of plasma miR-21 and
TGF-β1 protein level and increased PTEN protein level.
Conclusion: SKSF could attenuate the renal damage and renal fibrosis induced in
T2DM, which may be related to its regulation on the expressions of TGF-β1, PTEN, 
and miR-21.
EOF
Astilbe chinensis Franch. et Savat. (AC) has been used in traditional medicine
for the treatment of chronic bronchitis, arthralgia, and gastralgia. In this
study, we investigated the antiobesity effect of AC extract on 3T3-L1
preadipocytes and high-fat-diet-fed C57BL/6N obese mice. We found that AC
extracts dramatically decreased the lipid content of 3T3-L1 cells in a
concentration-dependent manner without cytotoxicity. The action mechanism of AC
extract was demonstrated to be the inhibition of lipid accumulation and
dose-dependent decrease in the expression of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α
(C/EBPα), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ), and sterol
regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1). Furthermore, AC extract increased 
the mitochondrial phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), mitochondrial biogenesis, and lipolysis-related
factors. In amice model of high-fat-diet-induced obesity, the mice administered
AC extract experienced significant decrease of 64% in weight gain, 55% in insulin
resistance index, 22% in plasma triglycerides (TG), 56% in total cholesterol
(TC), and 21% in nonesterified fatty acid (NEFA) levels compared with those in
the high-fat diet-fed control mice. Collectively, these results indicated that AC
extract exerted antiobesogenic activity through the modulation of the AMPK
signaling pathway, inhibition of adipogenesis, decreased lipid content, and
reduced adipocyte size.
EOF
Background: Several studies have evaluated the effects of oolong tea extracts on 
obesity. However, only few studies focused on the anti-obesity effect of specific
components of oolong tea.
Objective: This study investigated the specific anti-obesity capabilities of
oolong tea polysaccharide (TPS) and tea polyphenols (TPP) in high-fat
diet-induced Sprague-Dawley rats.
Methods: Oolong tea water extract, TPS, TPP, and polysaccharide mixed with
polyphenol (TPSM) given at doses of 400 or 800 mg/kg were administered to rats
fed with high-fat diet for 6 weeks to explore the anti-obesity effects of the
treatments.
Results: TPS and TPP were responsible for the suppressive effect on body fat
accumulation. TPSM exhibited the highest effect on body weight reduction, and TPS
and TPP effectively reduced serum leptin levels and significantly improved blood 
lipid and antioxidant levels. Moreover, microarray analysis of hepatic and
adipose gene expression profiles revealed that TPP and TPS inhibited obesity
through effects on the pathways of fatty acid biosynthesis, steroid hormone
biosynthesis, unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation,
glycerolipid metabolism, and glycerophospholipid metabolism.
Conclusions: TPSM might be a potential therapy for the treatment of obesity.
EOF
AIM: To identify the effects and mechanism of action of Polygonatum kingianum (P.
kingianum) on dyslipidemia in rats using an integrated untargeted metabolomic
method.
METHODS: A rat model of dyslipidemia was induced with a high-fat diet (HFD) and
rats were given P. kingianum [4 g/(kg•d)] intragastrically for 14 wk. Changes in 
serum and hepatic lipid parameters were evaluated. Metabolites in serum, urine
and liver samples were profiled using ultra-high performance liquid
chromatography/mass spectrometry followed by multivariate statistical analysis to
identify potential biomarkers and metabolic pathways.
RESULTS: P. kingianum significantly inhibited the HFD-induced increase in total
cholesterol and triglyceride in the liver and serum. P. kingianum also
significantly regulated metabolites in the analyzed samples toward normal status.
Nineteen, twenty-four and thirty-eight potential biomarkers were identified in
serum, urine and liver samples, respectively. These biomarkers involved
biosynthesis of phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, valine, leucine and
isoleucine, along with metabolism of tryptophan, tyrosine, phenylalanine, starch,
sucrose, glycerophospholipid, arachidonic acid, linoleic acid, nicotinate,
nicotinamide and sphingolipid.
CONCLUSION: P. kingianum alleviates HFD-induced dyslipidemia by regulating many
endogenous metabolites in serum, urine and liver samples. Collectively, our
findings suggest that P. kingianum may be a promising lipid regulator to treat
dyslipidemia and associated diseases.
EOF
AIM: To validate the effects of receptor interacting protein kinase-3 (RIP3)
deletion in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and to clarify the
mechanism of action.
METHODS: Wild-type (WT) and RIP3 knockout (KO) mice were fed normal chow and high
fat (HF) diets for 12 wk. The body weight was assessed once weekly. After 12 wk, 
the liver and serum samples were extracted. The liver tissue expression levels of
RIP3, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, protein disulfide isomerase,
apolipoprotein-B, X-box binding protein-1, sterol regulatory element-binding
protein-1c, fatty acid synthase, cluster of differentiation-36, diglyceride
acyltransferase, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha, tumor necrosis
factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interleukin-6 were assessed. Oleic acid treated primary
hepatocytes from WT and RIP3KO mice were stained with Nile red. The expression of
inflammatory cytokines, including chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand (CXCL) 1, CXCL2,
and TNF-α, in monocytes was evaluated.
RESULTS: RIP3KO HF diet fed mice showed a significant gain in body weight, and
liver weight, liver to body weight ratio, and liver triglycerides were increased 
in HF diet fed RIP3KO mice compared to HF diet fed WT mice. RIP3KO primary
hepatocytes also had increased intracellular fat droplets compared to WT primary 
hepatocytes after oleic acid treatment. RIP3 overexpression decreased hepatic fat
content. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that
the expression of very-low-density lipoproteins secretion markers (microsomal
triglyceride transfer protein, protein disulfide isomerase, and apolipoprotein-B)
was significantly suppressed in RIP3KO mice. The overall NAFLD Activity Score was
the same between WT and RIP3KO mice; however, RIP3KO mice had increased fatty
change and decreased lobular inflammation compared to WT mice. Inflammatory
signals (CXCL1/2, TNF-α, and interleukin-6) increased after lipopolysaccharide
and pan-caspase inhibitor (necroptotic condition) treatment in monocytes.
Neutrophil chemokines (CXCL1, and CXCL2) were decreased, and TNF-α was increased 
after RIP3 inhibitor treatment in monocytes.
CONCLUSION: RIP3 deletion exacerbates steatosis, and partially inhibits
inflammation in the HF diet induced NAFLD model.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The lactation-suckling period is critical for white adipose tissue
(WAT) development. Early postnatal nutrition influences later obesity risk but
underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we tested whether altered postnatal
nutrition specifically during suckling impacts epigenetic regulation of key
metabolic genes in WAT and alter long-term adiposity set point.
METHODS: We analyzed the effects of maternal high-fat (HF) feeding in rats
exclusively during lactation-suckling on breast milk composition and its impact
on male offspring visceral epidydimal (eWAT) and subcutaneous inguinal (iWAT)
depots during suckling and in adulthood.
RESULTS: Maternal HF feeding during lactation had no effect on mothers' body
weight (BW) or global breast milk composition, but induced qualitative changes in
breast milk fatty acid (FA) composition (high n-6/n-3 polyunsaturated FA ratio
and low medium-chain FA content). During suckling, HF neonates showed increased
BW and mass of both eWAT and iWAT depot but only eWAT displayed an enhanced
adipogenic transcriptional signature. In adulthood, HF offspring were predisposed
to weight gain and showed increased hyperplastic growth only in eWAT. This
specific eWAT expansion was associated with increased expression and activity of 
stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), a key enzyme of FA metabolism. SCD1 converts
saturated FAs, e.g. palmitate and stearate, to monounsaturated FAs, palmitoleate 
and oleate, which are the predominant substrates for triglyceride synthesis. Scd1
upregulation in eWAT was associated with reduced DNA methylation in Scd1 promoter
surrounding a PPARγ-binding region. Conversely, changes in SCD1 levels and
methylation were not observed in iWAT, coherent with a depot-specific
programming.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data reveal that maternal HF feeding during suckling programs
long-term eWAT expansion in part by SCD1 epigenetic reprogramming. This
programming events occurred with drastic changes in breast milk FA composition,
suggesting that dietary FAs are key metabolic programming factors in the early
postnatal period.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Excessive gestational weight gain (EGWG) closely associates with
postpartum obesity. However, the causal role of EGWG in postpartum obesity has
not been experimentally verified. The objective of this study was to determine
whether and how EGWG causes long-term postpartum obesity.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were fed with high-fat diet during gestation (HFFDG) or
control chow, then their body composition and energy metabolism were monitored
after delivery.
RESULTS: We found that HFFDG significantly increased gestational weight gain.
After delivery, adiposity of HFFDG-treated mice (Preg-HF) quickly recovered to
the levels of controls. However, 3 months after parturition, Preg-HF mice started
to gain significantly more body fat even with regular chow. The increase of body 
fat of Preg-HF mice was progressive with aging and by 9 months after delivery had
increased 2-fold above the levels of controls. The expansion of white adipose
tissue (WAT) of Preg-HF mice was manifested by hyperplasia in visceral fat and
hypertrophy in subcutaneous fat. Preg-HF mice developed low energy expenditure
and UCP1 expression in interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) in later life.
Although blood estrogen concentrations were similar between Preg-HF and control
mice, a significant decrease in estrogen receptor α (ERα) expression and
hypermethylation of the ERα promoter was detected in the fat of Preg-HF mice 9
months after delivery. Interestingly, hypermethylation of ERα promoter and low
ERα expression were only detected in adipocyte progenitor cells in both iBAT and 
WAT of Preg-HF mice at the end of gestation.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that HFFDG causes long-term postpartum
obesity independent of early postpartum fat retention. This study also suggests
that HFFDG adversely programs long-term postpartum energy metabolism by
epigenetically reducing estrogen signaling in both BAT and WAT.
EOF
In this study, the antiobesity effects of n-butanol extract of lotus seeds (LBE) 
were evaluated in cultured 3T3-L1 preadipocytes and in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed
mice. LBE decreased lipid contents in mature 3T3-L1 cells without obvious
cytotoxicity. Meanwhile, LBE supplementation also led to weight loss and improved
plasma lipid profiles in HFD-fed mice. Furthermore, LBE could activate
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) accompanied by down-regulation of lipogenesis
related genes (PPARγ, aP2, LPL, C/EBPα, FAS, SREBP-1c) and up-regulation of
lipolysis genes (adiponectin and PPARα) in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our
data demonstrated LBE possesses antiadipogenic and antilipogenic activities which
are, at least partially, mediated by the activation of AMPK signaling pathways.
EOF
Sustainable and healthy food-related behavior is high on the public policy and
research agenda due to its potential to cope with negative environmental and
health outcomes. There are several measures related to sustainability in food
choices but there have not been many attempts to integrate sustainable and
healthy eating (SHE) behaviors into one measurement instrument so far. Therefore,
the main aim of this study was to identify how young adults interpret the SHE
concept and to develop an instrument that measures a self-reported consumer's SHE
behavior. The process of scale development involved an exploratory qualitative
study and two quantitative studies. As a result of 20 individual in depth
interviews with Polish young adults, 50 items were generated reflecting their
perspective on principles of SHE (Study 1). Two samples were used in the scale
validation process: n = 217 (Study 2) and n = 220 (Study 3). Via principal
component analysis, reliability analysis, and confirmatory factor analysis, the
final form of the scale was derived. The proposed 34-item scale offers insights
into the most relevant aspects of SHE behaviors, grouped in eight factors:
"healthy and balanced diet", "certification and quality labels", "meat
reduction", "selection of local food", "choice of low fat food products",
"avoidance of food waste" and purchase and consumption of food products that are 
respecting "animal welfare" and finally choice of "seasonal food". Although the
developed scale can benefit from further refinement and validity testing in
different cultural and social background, it is clear that the scale, as
developed, can be a useful tool for researchers who are interested in the study
of SHE behaviors.
EOF
Snacks combining different functional ingredients could represent a useful
therapeutic strategy against NAFLD. The present study aimed to analyze the effect
of two snack formulations based on carob and wakame flour in the treatment for
NAFLD in rats. For this purpose, metabolic syndrome was induced in 50 adult rats 
by a high-fat high-fructose diet over eight weeks. After this period, rats were
fed either normal calorie diets supplemented or not with snack A (1/50
wakame/carob pod) and snack B (1/5 wakame/carob pod) for four additional weeks.
After sacrifice, liver composition and serum parameters were analyzed. Different 
pathways of triacylglycerol metabolism in liver were studied including fatty acid
oxidation, fatty acid synthesis, triglyceride assembly and release, fatty acid
uptake and glucose uptake. Oxidative stress was also measured. Snack treatment,
and mainly B snack, reduced liver triacylglycerol levels by increasing fat
oxidation. Moreover, this snack reduced oxidative stress. Therefore, this snack
formulation could represent an interesting tool useful for fatty liver treatment.
EOF
We have previously shown that diabetes causes dysfunctional cerebral
neovascularization that increases the risk for cerebrovascular disorders such as 
stroke and cognitive impairment. Pericytes (PCs) play a pivotal role in the
angiogenic process through their interaction with the endothelial cells (EC).
Yet, the role of PCs in dysfunctional cerebral neovascularization in diabetes is 
unclear. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the increased
proangiogenic Ephrin-B2 signaling in PCs contributes to the dysfunctional
cerebral neovascularization in diabetes. Type-II diabetes was induced by a
combination of high fat diet and low dose streptozotocin injection in male Wistar
rats. Selective in vivo Ephrin-B2 silencing in brain PCs was achieved using the
stereotactic injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV) with NG2-promoter that
expresses Ephrin-B2 shRNA. Neovascularization was assessed using vascular
fluorescent dye stain. Novel object recognition (NOR) test was used to determine 
cognitive functions. Human brain microvascular pericytes HBMVPCs were grown in
high glucose 25 mM and palmitate 200 uM (HG/Pal) to mimic diabetic conditions.
Scratch migration and tube formation assays were conducted to evaluate PC/EC
interaction and angiogenic functions in PC/EC co-culture. Diabetes increased the 
expression of Ephrin-B2 in the cerebrovasculature and pericytes. Concomitant
increases in cerebral neovascularization parameters including vascular density,
tortuosity and branching density in diabetic rats were accompanied by
deterioration of cognitive function. Inhibition of Ephrin-B2 expression in PCs
significantly restored cerebral vascularization and improved cognitive functions.
HG/Pal increased PC/EC angiogenic properties in co-culture. Silencing Ephrin-B2
in PCs significantly reduced PC migration and PC/EC co-culture angiogenic
properties. This study emphasizes the significant contribution of PCs to the
pathological neovascularization in diabetes. Our findings introduce Ephrin-B2
signaling as a promising therapeutic target to improve cerebrovascular integrity 
in diabetes.
EOF
Although a physiological dose of testosterone replacement therapy (p-TRT) has
been shown to improve left ventricular (LV) function, some studies reported that 
it increased the risk of myocardial infarction in testosterone-deprived men. We
previously reported that vildagliptin might be used as an alternative to the
p-TRT. In this study, we hypothesized that a combined low-dose TRT with
vildagliptin exerts greater efficacy than single regimen in improving
cardiometabolic function in obese-insulin resistant rats with testosterone
deprivation. Male rats were fed on a normal diet or high-fat diet for 12 weeks.
Then, they were divided into 2 subgroups; sham operation and orchiectomy (NDO,
HFO) and fed their diets for another 12 weeks. At week 25, orchiectomized rats
were subdivided into 4 groups, vehicle, p-TRT, vildagliptin, and combined drugs. 
At week 29, cardiometabolic and biochemical parameters were determined. HFO rats 
had obese-insulin resistance with a worse LV dysfunction, compared with sham.
Vildagliptin and combined drugs effectively reduced insulin resistance. All
treatments reduced blood pressure, cardiac autonomic imbalance, LV dysfunction,
mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis, and increased mitochondrial fusion in NDO
and HFO rats. However, p-TRT and combined drugs, but not vildagliptin, reduced
mitochondrial fission in NDO and HFO rats. We concluded that combined low-dose
TRT with vildagliptin mitigated LV function at a similar level to the p-TRT alone
and vildagliptin via improving mitochondrial fusion, reducing mitochondrial
dysfunction and apoptosis in testosterone-deprived rats. Our findings suggest
that low-dose TRT combined with vildagliptin may be an alternative for p-TRT in
conditions of obese-insulin resistance with testosterone deprivation.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Obesity is growing at epidemic proportions worldwide. Natural
compounds curcumin and α-lipoic acid have been shown to reduce body-weight gain
in both preclinical and clinical studies. This study examined the effect of a
combination of curcumin and α-lipoic acid on weight gain and adiposity in
high-fat-diet (HFD)-fed mice.
METHODS: C57BL6 mice (7 weeks old) were randomly assigned to receive either HFD
(60% fat) or a normal diet (ND, 10% fat) for a 12-week period, following which
the mice receiving HFD were further assigned to supplemental curcumin (0.07%),
α-lipoic acid (0.2%), or a combination of curcumin and α-lipoic acid formulated
into the HFD for a further 12 weeks. Food intake and body mass were determined on
a weekly basis. Body fat composition was determined by dual energy X-ray
absorptiometry.
RESULTS: Treatment with both curcumin and α-lipoic acid significantly reduced
body weight gain in HFD-treated mice, and the combination was more effective in
attenuating body weight compared to the individual agents. Food intake and
caloric intake were significantly lower in the mice that received α-lipoic acid. 
Percentage body fat and fat mass and lean body mass, which were increased
following HFD feeding, were attenuated in the mice receiving curcumin and the
combination. Lean mass was also elevated in the mice that were subjected to an
HFD, which was unaltered by curcumin or the combination.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the combination of curcumin and α-lipoic acid
exhibits an additive effect in reducing weight gain and adiposity in response to 
high-fat feeding.
EOF
Recent studies revealed the emerging role of excess uptake of lipids in the
development of hypothyroidism. However, the underlying mechanism is largely
unknown. We investigated the effect of high fat diet (HFD) on thyroid function
and the role of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in HFD induced hypothyroidism. Male
Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with HFD or control diet for 18 weeks. HFD rats
showed an impaired thyroid function, with decreased thyroglobulin (Tg) level. We 
found the ER stress was triggered in HFD rat thyroid glands and palmitate treated
thyrocytes. Luminal swelling of ER in thyroid epithelial cell of HFD rats was
also observed. The rate of Tg degradation increased in palmitate treated
thyrocytes. In addition, applying 4-phenyl butyric acid (4-PBA) to alleviate ER
stress in HFD rats improved the decrease of Tg and thyroid function. Withdrawal
of the HFD improved thyroid function . In conclusion, we demonstrate that ER
stress mediates the HFD induced hypothyroidism, probably by impairing the
production of Tg, and attenuation of ER stress improves thyroid function. Our
study provides the understanding of how HFD induces hypothyroidism.
EOF
High variability exists in individual susceptibility to develop overweight in an 
obesogenic environment and the biological underpinnings of this heterogeneity are
poorly understood. In this brief report, we show in mice that the vulnerability
to diet-induced obesity is associated with low level of polysialic acid-neural
cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a factor of neural plasticity, in the
hypothalamus. As we previously shown that reduction of hypothalamic PSA-NCAM is
sufficient to alter energy homeostasis and promote fat storage under hypercaloric
pressure, inter-individual variability in hypothalamic PSA-NCAM might account for
the vulnerability to diet-induced obesity. These data support the concept that
reduced plasticity in brain circuits that control appetite, metabolism and body
weight confers risk for eating disorders and obesity.
EOF
ADP-ribosylation is an important post-translational protein modification that
regulates diverse biological processes, controlled by dedicated transferases, and
hydrolases. Disruption in the gene encoding for MACROD2, a
mono-ADP-ribosylhydrolase, has been associated to the Kabuki syndrome, a
pediatric congenital disorder characterized by facial anomalies, and mental
retardation. Non-coding and structural mutations/variations in MACROD2 have been 
associated to psychiatric disorders, to obesity, and to cancer. Mechanistically, 
it has been recently shown that frequent deletions of the MACROD2 alter DNA
repair and sensitivity to DNA damage, resulting in chromosome instability, and
colorectal tumorigenesis. Whether MACROD2 deletion sensitizes the organism to
metabolic and tumorigenic stressors, in absence of other genetic drivers, is
unclear. As MACROD2 is ubiquitously expressed in mice, here we generated
constitutively whole-body knock-out mice for MACROD2, starting from mouse
embryonic stem (ES) cells deleted for the gene using the VelociGene® technology, 
belonging to the Knockout Mouse Project (KOMP) repository, a NIH initiative.
MACROD2 knock-out mice were viable and healthy, indistinguishable from wild type 
littermates. High-fat diet administration induced obesity, and glucose/insulin
intolerance in mice independent of MACROD2 gene deletion. Moreover, sub-lethal
irradiation did not indicate a survival or lethality bias in MACROD2 knock-out
mice compared to wild type littermates. Altogether, our data point against a
sufficient role of MACROD2 deletion in aggravating high-fat induced obesity and
DNA damage-associated lethality, in absence of other genetic drivers.
EOF
The mortality rate of patients who develop sepsis-related cardiac dysfunction is 
high. Many disease conditions (e.g., diabetes) increase the susceptibility to
infections and subsequently sepsis. Activation of the NF-κB pathway plays a
crucial role in the pathophysiology of sepsis-associated cardiac dysfunction and 
diabetic cardiomyopathy. The effect of diabetes on outcomes in patients with
sepsis is still highly controversial. We here hypothesized that type 2 diabetes
(T2DM) augments the cardiac (organ) dysfunction associated with sepsis, and that 
inhibition of the NF-κB pathway with linagliptin attenuates the cardiac (organ)
dysfunction in mice with T2DM/sepsis. To investigate this, 10-week old male
C57BL/6 mice were randomized to receive normal chow or high fat diet (HFD), 60%
of calories derived from fat). After 12 weeks, mice were subjected to sham
surgery or cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) for 24 h. At 1 hour after surgery,
mice were treated with linagliptin (10 mg/kg, i.v.), IKK-16 (1 mg/kg, i.v.), or
vehicle (2% DMSO, 3 ml/kg, i.v.). Mice also received analgesia, fluids and
antibiotics at 6 and 18 h after surgery. Mice that received HFD showed a
significant increase in body weight, impairment in glucose tolerance, reduction
in ejection fraction (%EF), and increase in alanine aminotransferase (ALT). Mice 
on HFD subjected to CLP showed further reduction in %EF, increase in ALT,
developed acute kidney dysfunction and lung injury. They also showed significant 
increase in NF-κB pathway, iNOS expression, and serum inflammatory cytokines
compared to sham surgery group. Treatment of HFD-CLP mice with linagliptin or
IKK-16 resulted in significant reductions in (i) cardiac, liver, kidney, and lung
injury associated with CLP-sepsis, (ii) NF-κB activation and iNOS expression in
the heart, and (iii) serum inflammatory cytokine levels compared to HFD-CLP mice 
treated with vehicle. Our data show that pre-existing type 2 diabetes phenotype
worsens the organ dysfunction/injury associated with CLP-sepsis in mice. Most
notably, inhibition of NF-κB reduces the organ dysfunction/injury associated with
sepsis in mice with pre-existing T2DM.
EOF
A reduced-fat effect of probiotics was primarily derived functionally rather than
structurally, and we investigated the ultra-structural aspect of the gut mucosa
in Syrian golden hamsters with high-fat diet by feeding with Lactobacillus casei 
subsp. casei SY13 (Lc SY13). 36 adult-male Syrian golden hamsters were randomly
grouped into four; control group (G1), high-fat group (G2), high-dose group (G3),
and low-dose group (G4). The G1 hamsters were fed a standard normal chow diet,
while those in other groups were fed a high-fat chow diet for duration of 8
weeks. With the use of oral gavage, G1 hamsters were administered 1 mL of skim
milk/hamster/day, while G3 and G4 hamsters were administered Lc SY13 at 4.1 ×
1010 or 4.1 × 108 cells/hamster/day. At 14, 28, and 56 days consecutively, three 
golden hamsters from each group were sacrificed by carotid, taking blood from
eyeball for quantitative detection of hamsters serum total cholesterol (TC),
triacylglycerol (TG), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein
(LDL). At 56 days, Taqman-MGB fluorescence probe was used for the quantitative
detection of Lc SY13 in the intestinal mucosal, and their ileum was viewed using 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Screening of the ileum microvilli of the 
hamsters showed that at 56 days, G3 was significantly (P < 0.05) bigger than
other groups while its serum TC, TG, and TDL decreased. Lc SY13 was detected in
the intestines, and was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the ileum of G3 than
those of G4. In conclusion, Lc SY13 may play a remarkable reduced-fat response
role by improving high-fat uptake as well as its metabolism and transport; most
especially in G3. The reduced-fat response of the Lc SY13 differed in a time and 
dose-dependent manner. These findings indicated that probiotic strains of Lc SY13
can reduce fat level, thus suggesting its potential in ameliorating
obesity-related diseases.
EOF
Obesity and high fat diet consumption contribute to the development of metabolic 
disorders, insulin resistance, neuroinflammation, and cognitive impairments. CNS 
administration of insulin into the brain can attenuate these cognitive
impairments. The present study investigated whether hippocampal-dependent spatial
memory impairments in a dietary induced mouse model of obesity could be improved 
by the direct administration of insulin into the hippocampus and whether this was
associated with markers of hippocampal inflammation. C57Bl/6J mice consumed a low
fat or high fat diet for 16 weeks and continuous intrahippocampal saline or
insulin infusion for the final 4 weeks, during a period of behavioral testing,
before gene expression analysis was performed. The high fat diet group
demonstrated poorer spatial memory performance in the Morris water maze and
Y-maze, supporting the hypothesis that high fat diet leads to hippocampal
dependent cognitive impairment. Insulin infusion into the hippocampus reversed
the deficit of high fat diet consumption on both of the tasks. Increased
expression of inflammatory markers was detected in the hippocampus in the high
fat diet group and expression of these markers was ameliorated in insulin infused
mice. This demonstrates that CNS insulin can improve hippocampal-dependent memory
and that hippocampal inflammation may be a factor in the development of cognitive
deficits associated with diet-induced obesity. Furthermore, these data suggest
that insulin may act to attenuate high fat diet induced cognitive deficits by
reducing neuroinflammation.
EOF
Although several lipid-lowering agents have been introduced for the treatment of 
atherosclerosis (AS), currently marketed medications have not solved the problem 
completely. This study aims to investigate the effects of leonurine (SCM-198) on 
dyslipidemia in mammals with ApoE knockout (ApoE-/-) mice, New Zealand white
rabbits and senile Rhesus monkeys fed with high fat diet were dosed daily with
leonurine or atorvastatin. The serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG),
low density lipoprotein (LDL), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) were
determined. Moreover, in Rhesus monkeys, bodyweight, arterial ultrasound of right
common carotid artery, Apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1) and ApoB levels, hematologic and
toxicological examinations were detected. Serum TC and TG in both mice and
rabbits were significantly reduced by SCM-198 and atorvastatin. In the 10 mg/kg
SCM-198 group of monkeys, maximum TC reduction of 24.05% was achieved at day 150,
while 13.16% LDL reduction achieved at day 60, without arterial morphologic
changes or adverse events. Atorvastatin (1.2 mg/kg) showed similar effects as
SCM-198 in improving lipid profiles in monkeys, yet its long-term use could
induce tolerance. Furthermore, leonurine suppressed genes expression of fatty
acid synthesis, such as fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase
(SCD-1), sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBF) in liver in high fat
diet feeding ApoE-/- mice. SCM-198, with a reliable safety profile, is of high
value in improving lipid profiles in mammals, providing an alternative to a
substantial population who are statin-intolerant.
EOF
In recent years, obesity has become a key factor affecting human health. Moringa 
oleifera Lam. is a perennial tropical deciduous tree, which is widely used in
human medicine due to its nutritional and unique medicinal value. It has a
cholesterol-lowering effect, but its mechanism of action is unclear. In this
study, we elucidated the inhibitory effect of M. oleifera leaf petroleum ether
extract (MOPEE) on lipid accumulation by in vitro and in vivo experiments, and we
described its mechanism of action. MOPEE suppressed adipogenesis in 3T3-L1
adipocytes in a dose-dependent manner and had no effect on cell viability at
doses up to 400 μg/ml. Furthermore, MOPEE (400 μg/ml) significantly downregulated
the expression of adipogenesis-associated proteins [peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins α and 
β (C/EBPα and C/EBPβ), and fatty acid synthase (FAS)] and upregulated the
expression of a lipolysis-associated protein [hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL)] in 
3T3-L1 adipocytes. Additionally, MOPEE (400 μg/ml) significantly increased the
degree of phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase α (AMPKα) and
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC). An AMPK inhibitor reversed the MOPEE-induced
activation of AMPKα and ACC in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Animal experiments showed that,
in high-fat diet (HFD) mice, MOPEE [0.5 g/kg body weight (BW)] effectively
decreased BW; relative epididymal, perirenal, and mesenteric fat weight and fat
tissue size; and hepatic fat accumulation. Furthermore, MOPEE markedly reduced
the serum levels of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
(LDL-C), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). Moreover, MOPEE significantly
downregulated the expression of adipogenesis-associated proteins (PPARγ and FAS) 
and upregulated the expression of a lipolysis-associated protein [adipose
triglyceride lipase (ATGL)] in HFD mice hepatic and epididymal fat tissue.
Additionally, MOPEE markedly increased the degree of phosphorylation of AMPKα and
ACC in HFD mice hepatic and epididymal fat tissue. Following
ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass
spectrometry (UPLC-QTOF-MS/MS) analysis, three phytocompounds (isoquercitrin,
chrysin-7-glucoside, and quercitrin) were identified as compounds with relatively
high levels in MOPEE. Among them, quercitrin showed excellent fat accumulation
inhibitory activity, and the three compounds had synergistic effects in
inhibiting adipogenesis. Taken together, MOPEE inhibits fat accumulation by
inhibiting the adipogenesis and promoting the lipolysis, and this process is
related to AMPK activation.
EOF
Gut-liver axis is increasingly recognized to be involved in the pathogenesis and 
progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The gut microbiota and 
intestinal permeability have been demonstrated to be the key players in the
gut-liver cross talk in NAFLD. Geniposide and chlorogenic acid (GC) combination
is derived from a traditional Chinese medicine, Qushi Huayu Decoction (QHD),
which has been used in clinic for NAFLD treatment for decades in China and
validated in multiple animal models of NAFLD. GC combination previously has been 
demonstrated to treat NAFLD via modulation on the gut microbiota composition. In 
the present study, the effects of GC combination on gut barrier function in NAFLD
were evaluated, and QHD and sodium butyrate (NaB), the intestinal mucosa
protectant, were used as positive control. The therapeutic effect of GC
combination on NAFLD were confirmed by amelioration on non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) induced by high-fat diet (HFD) in mouse, which was
comparable to that of QHD. Simultaneously, GC combination was found to reduce the
signaling of gut-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS) including hepatic LPS binding
protein, Toll like receptor 4, interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor -α, and
Kupffer cells infiltration. Furthermore, GC combination reduced LPS and D-lactate
in plasma, restoring the colonic tight junction (TJ) expression and inhibited
colonic TJs disassembly by down-regulation on RhoA/ROCK signaling in NASH induced
by HFD. On the other hand, NASH was also alleviated in NaB group. The results of 
the present study suggested the important role of protection on gut barrier
function in NAFLD treatment, which contributed to the therapeutic effects of GC
combination on NASH.
EOF
Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) produced endogenously can cause mitochondrial
dysfunction and metabolic complications in various cell types by inducing
oxidative stress. In the liver, oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress
affects the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Although a 
link between both stresses and fatty liver diseases has been suggested, few
studies have investigated the involvement of catalase in fatty liver
pathogenesis. We examined whether catalase is associated with NAFLD, using
catalase knockout (CKO) mice and the catalase-deficient human hepatoma cell line 
HepG2. Hepatic morphology analysis revealed that the fat accumulation was more
prominent in high-fat diet (HFD) CKO mice compared to that in age-matched
wild-type (WT) mice, and lipid peroxidation and H2O2 release were significantly
elevated in CKO mice. Transmission electron micrographs indicated that the liver 
mitochondria from CKO mice tended to be more severely damaged than those in WT
mice. Likewise, mitochondrial DNA copy number and cellular ATP concentrations
were significantly lower in CKO mice. In fatty acid-treated HepG2 cells,
knockdown of catalase accelerated cellular lipid accumulation and depressed
mitochondrial biogenesis, which was recovered by co-treatment with N-acetyl
cysteine or melatonin. This effect of antioxidant was also true in HFD-fed CKO
mice, suppressing fatty liver development and improving hepatic mitochondrial
function. Expression of ER stress marker proteins and hepatic fat deposition also
increased in normal-diet, aged CKO mice compared to WT mice. These findings
suggest that H2O2 production may be an important event triggering NAFLD and that 
catalase may be an attractive therapeutic target for preventing NAFLD.
EOF
This study compared five commercially available probiotics vis-à-vis antibiotic
growth promotant (AGP) supplementation and absence of feed additive based on
efficiency, intestinal morphometry, and energy digestibility in improving broiler
chicken production. A total of 630 straight run (Cobb) day-old broiler chicks
were distributed to seven treatments following a completely randomized design,
with ten replicates per treatment and nine birds per replicate per cage. Dietary 
treatments consisted of basal diet in combination with the following: without
probiotics and AGP supplementation (treatment 1); 75 ppm each of
chlorotetracycline (CTC) and Zn bacitracin (treatment 2); probiotic A, Bacillus
subtilis (treatment 3); probiotic B, Bacillus subtilis (treatment 4); probiotic
C, Enterococcus faecium (treatment 5); and probiotic D, Bacillus subtilis
(treatment 6); probiotic E, Enterococcus faecium, Bifidobacterium spp.,
Pediococcus spp., and Lactobacillus spp. (treatment 7). At day 42, energy
digestibility was determined by fasting three randomly selected birds from each
treatment for 12 h and then subjecting them to their corresponding dietary
treatments. Excreta were collected and pooled after 24 h of feeding. Pooled
excreta were weighed, oven-dried, and subjected to energy analyses after 3-day
collection. Apparent total tract metabolizable energy was then computed. At day
47, three birds were randomly selected per treatment for intestinal morphometry
(villi height and crypt depth) of the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. Dietary
supplementation using probiotics showed no significant effect on overall body
weight, weight gain, feed consumption, feed efficiency, dressing percentage,
mortality, harvest recovery, carcass quality parameters (e.g., meat to bone ratio
and abdominal fat content), intestinal morphometry, and energy digestibility.
Birds under treatment 7 (basal feed + probiotic E) generated the highest income
over feed and chick cost.
EOF
Defects in hepatic lipid metabolism cause non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and
insulin resistance, and these pathologies are closely linked. Regulation of lipid
droplet metabolism is central to the control of intracellular fatty acid fluxes
and perilipin (PLIN) 5 is important in this process. We examined the role of
PLIN5 on hepatic lipid metabolism and systemic glycemic control using
liver-specific Plin5 deficient mice (Plin5 LKO ). Hepatocytes isolated from Plin5
LKO mice exhibited marked changes in lipid metabolism characterized by decreased 
fatty acid uptake and storage, decreased fatty acid oxidation that was associated
with reduced contact between lipid droplets and mitochondria, and reduced
triglyceride secretion. With consumption of a high-fat diet, Plin5 LKO mice
accumulated intrahepatic triglyceride, without significant changes in
inflammation, ceramide or diacylglycerol contents, endoplasmic reticulum stress
or autophagy. Instead, livers of Plin5 LKO mice exhibited activation of c-Jun
N-terminal kinase, impaired insulin signal transduction and insulin resistance,
which impaired systemic insulin action and glycemic control. Re-expression of
Plin5 in the livers of Plin5 LKO mice reversed these effects. Together, we show
that Plin5 is an important modulator of intrahepatic lipid metabolism and suggest
that the increased Plin5 expression that occurs with over nutrition may play an
important role in preventing hepatic insulin resistance.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effects of various diets on structure and function
of the bladder in both normal and obstructed bladders of male Wistar rats.
METHODS: Sham-operated rats and rats with experimentally-induced bladder outlet
obstruction (BOO) were fed with standard rats' feed (control), High-carbohydrate 
(HCD), High-fat (HFD) and High-protein (HPD) diets. Feeding was continued for 4
weeks after BOO surgery. Bladder weight, detrusor contractility, Rho-Kinase (ROK)
and Myosin Light Chain Kinase (MLCK) expressions were determined using standard
methods.
RESULTS: In comparison with control, bladder weight was increased in HFD
(164 ± 9 mg), BOO (437 ± 21 mg), HFD-BOO (523 ± 19 mg) and HPD-BOO (268 ± 18 mg).
Detrusor contractility was reduced in BOO and HFD-BOO. The ROK- I and II
expressions were high in HCD-BOO and low in HPD-BOO but ROK-I was also elevated
in BOO. However, MLCK increased only in HCD-BOO.
CONCLUSION: The results of the study reveal that diets with varying macronutrient
compositions have variable effects on the bladder with and without obstruction.
High-fat diets especially, affect detrusor morphology and function in both
obstructed and unobstructed bladders.
EOF
In the past decade, research on the biology of the gut-liver axis has assisted in
understanding the basic biology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). High
mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein, in its role as a crucial injury-related
molecule, displays a substantial correlation with the degree of liver steatosis. 
However, its underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. In the current study
of ASC-/- mice on a high-fat diet (HFD), we observed disorder of the gut
microbiota along with abnormal increases in the Firmicutes:Bacteroidetes ratio
and in Streptomyces, both of which were detected by 16S rDNA sequencing.
Therefore, we investigated the intestinal mucosal injury and analyzed the NAFLD
activity score and found that the ASC-/--HFD group was more severely impaired
than the others. Moreover, HMGB1 increased significantly in the intestinal tissue
and was co-localized with an exosomal marker. We revealed that HMGB1 was
significantly elevated in the exosomes of the ASC-/--HFD group. It transported by
exosomes from the intestine to the liver, thereby triggering hepatic steatosis
when dysbiosis. In conclusion, the findings indicated that HMGB1 plays a crucial 
role in the gut-liver axis mechanism.
EOF
High-fat diet is associated with elevated plasma homocysteine (Hcy), and both are
linked to cancer. Although Hcy is not a coded amino acid, proteins do carry Hcy
modifications formed via a pathway involving methionyl-tRNA synthetase-catalyzed 
metabolic conversion of Hcy to Hcy-thiolactone. Hcy-thiolactone then chemically
reacts with protein lysine residues, affording KHcy-protein. Recently, Wang et
al.[1] (Cell Rep. 2018;25:398-412.e6) showed that this pathway promotes
colorectal cancer by impairing DNA damage repair.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Type II diabetes is a vascular risk factor for cognitive impairment
and increased risk of dementia. Disruption of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) and
blood-brain barrier (BBB) are hallmarks of subsequent retinal edema and central
nervous system dysfunction. However, the mechanisms by which diet or metabolic
syndrome induces dysfunction are not understood. A proposed mechanism is an
increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative stress. Inhibition of
mitochondrial carbonic anhydrase (mCA) decreases ROS and oxidative stress. In
this study, topiramate, a mCA inhibitor, was examined for its ability to protect 
the BRB and BBB in diet-induced obese type II diabetic mice.
METHODS: BBB and BRB permeability were assessed using 14C-sucrose and
99mTc-albumin in CD-1 mice fed a low-fat (control) or a high-fat diet. Topiramate
administration was compared to saline controls in both preventative and efficacy 
arms examining BRB and BBB disruption. Body weight and blood glucose were
measured weekly and body composition was assessed using EchoMRI. Metabolic
activity was measured using a comprehensive laboratory animal monitoring system. 
Brain tissues collected from the mice were assessed for changes in oxidative
stress and tight junction proteins.
RESULTS: High-fat feeding caused increased entry of 14C-sucrose and 99mTc-albumin
into the brains of diet-induced obese type II diabetic mice. Increased
permeability to 14C-sucrose was observed in the hypothalamus and hippocampus, and
attenuated by topiramate treatment, while increased permeability to 99mTc-albumin
occurred in the whole brain and was also attenuated by topiramate. Treatment with
topiramate decreased measures of oxidative stress and increased expression of the
tight junction proteins ZO-1 and claudin-12. In the retina, we observed increased
entry of 99mTc-albumin simultaneously with increased entry into the whole brain
during the preventative arm. This occurred prior to increased entry to the retina
for 14C-sucrose which occurred during the efficacy arm. Treatment with topiramate
had no effect on the retina.
CONCLUSIONS: Blood-brain barrier and blood-retinal barrier dysfunction were
examined in a mouse model of diet-induced obese type II diabetes. These studies
demonstrate that there are spatial and temporal differences in 14C-sucrose and
99mTc-albumin permeability in the brain and retina of diet-induced obese type II 
diabetic mice. Topiramate, a mitochondrial carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, is
efficacious at both preventing and treating BBB disruption in this diet-induced
obese type II diabetic mouse model.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Ling-gui-zhu-gan decoction (LGZG), a classic traditional Chinese
medicine formula, has been confirmed to be effective in improving steatosis in
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the mechanism under the
efficacy remains unclear. Hence, this study was designed to investigate the
mechanisms of LGZG on alleviating steatosis.
METHODS: Twenty four rats were randomly divided into three groups: normal group, 
NAFLD group, fed with high fat diet (HFD) and LGZG group (fed with HFD and
supplemented with LGZG). After 4 weeks intervention, blood and liver were
collected. Liver steatosis was detected by Oil Red O staining, and blood lipids
were biochemically determined. Whole genome genes were detected by RNA-Seq and
the significant different genes were verified by RT-qPCR. The protein expression 
of Protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 3C (PPP1R3C) and key molecules of
glycogen and lipid metabolism were measured by western blot. Chromophore
substrate methods measured glycogen phosphorylase (GPa) activity and glycogen
content.
RESULTS: HFD can markedly induce hepatic steatosis and promote liver triglyceride
(TG) and serum cholesterol (CHOL) contents, while liver TG and serum CHOL were
both markedly decreased by LGZG treatment for 4 weeks. By RNA sequencing, we
found that NAFLD rats showed significantly increase of PPP1R3C expression and
LGZG reduced its expression. RT-qPCR and Western blot both verified the
alteration of PPP1R3C upon LGZG intervention. LGZG also promoted the activity of 
glycogen phosphorylase liver type (PYGL) and inhibited the activity of glycogen
synthase (GS) in NAFLD rats, resulting in glycogenolysis increase and glycogen
synthesis decrease in the liver. By detecting glycogen content, we also found
that LGZG reduced hepatic glycogen in NAFLD rats. In addition, we analyzed the
key molecules in hepatic de novo lipogenesis and cholesterol synthesis, and
indicated that LGZG markedly inhibited the activity of acetyl-CoA carboxylase
(ACC), sterol receptor element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) and
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), resulting in lipid synthesis
decrease in the liver.
CONCLUSION: Our data highlighted the role of PPP1R3C targeting pathways, and
found that hepatic glycogen metabolism might be the potential target of LGZG in
preventing NAFLD.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: This study was performed to assess the influence of obesity on
colorectal cancer (CRC) and investigate the efficacy of Xiaotan Tongfu (XTTF)
decoction to CRC treatment.
METHODS: BALB/C mice were used to establish an obesity-associated CRC model by a 
high-fat diet and tumor implantation. The tumors were harvested from mice
inoculated with CT26 cell suspension. Body weight, liver weight, hepatic
metastasis, and histological changes were observed. Immunohistochemical analysis 
and real-time polymerase chain reaction were performed to measure the levels of
insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R), and IGF binding
protein 3 (IGFBP-3).
RESULTS: Obesity influenced the secretion of IGFs and aggravated CRC, while XTTF 
decoction inhibited the process of hepatic metastasis in CRC by upregulating the 
secretion of IGF-1/IGF-1R and downregulating the secretion of IGFBP-3.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence that XTTF decoction can serve as a
candidate curative treatment for CRC.
EOF
Lycopene is an aliphatic hydrocarbon carotenoid extracted from plants like
tomatoes, papayas, and watermelons. Previous studies have shown that lycopene can
exert prophylactic and/or therapeutic effects in different disorders, such as
heart failure and neoplasm via anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, and
anti-proliferative activities. In the central nervous system (CNS), lycopene also
has prophylactic and/or therapeutic effects in different type of disorders, such 
as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD),
cerebral ischemia, epilepsy, and depression. Lycopene also improves cognition and
memory ability of rodents in different pathological conditions, such as diabetes,
colchicine exposure, high-fat diet (HFD), and aging. Further, lycopene can
prevent neuro-toxicities induced by monosodium glutamate (MSG), trimethyltin
(TMT), methylmercury (MeHg), tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP), and cadmium (Cd). 
In some special conditions such as ethanol addiction and haloperidol-induced
orofacial dyskinesia, lycopene administration displays special therapeutic
effects. Mechanisms including inhibition of oxidative stress and
neuroinflammation, inhibition of neuronal apoptosis, and restoration of
mitochondrial function have been shown to mediate the neuroprotective effects of 
lycopene. Other mechanisms, such as inhibition of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and
c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), activation of the nuclear factor erythroid
2-related factor (Nrf2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling,
and restoration of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis, may be also involved in the
neuroprotective effect of lycopene. In hope of get a clear impression about the
role of lycopene in the CNS, we summarize and discuss the pharmacological effects
of lycopene as well as its possible mechanisms in CNS disorder prevention and/or 
therapy.
EOF
Prevention of obesity-induced cognitive decline is an important public health
goal. Purple sweet potato color (PSPC), a class of naturally occurring
anthocyanins, has beneficial potentials including antioxidant and neuroprotective
activity. Evidence shows that anthocyanins can activate AMP-activated protein
kinase (AMPK), a critical mediator of autophagy induction. This study
investigated whether PSPC could improve cognitive function through regulating
AMPK/autophagy signaling in HFD-fed obese mice. Our results showed that PSPC
significantly ameliorated obesity, peripheral insulin resistance and memory
impairment in HFD-fed mice. Moreover, enhanced autophagy was observed, along with
the decreased levels of protein carbonyls, malondialdehyde and reactive oxygen
species (ROS) in the hippocampus of HFD-fed mice due to PSPC administration. PSPC
also promoted hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and
neuron survival in HFD-fed mouse. These improvements were mediated, at least in
part, by the activation of AMPK, which was confirmed by metformin treatment. It
is concluded that PSPC has great potential to improve cognitive function in
HFD-fed mice via AMPK activation that restores autophagy and protects against
hippocampal apoptosis.
EOF
The excessive intake of a high-fat diet (HFD) leads to obesity, including
metabolic syndromes, disturbs gut microbiota composition, causes colitis, and
increases the plasma concentration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In the present
study, we examined the role of gut microbiota in the occurrence of HFD-induced
psychiatric disorders in mice. C57BL/6 J male mice fed a HFD for 9 weeks were led
to obesity; their memory impairment was assessed by the Y-maze and novel object
recognition test, and anxiety-like behaviors by the elevated plus maze. The
intake of a HFD suppressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in
the hippocampus and increased blood TNF-α and LPS levels. HFD treatment more
potently increased NF-κB activation and Iba1+ (microglial) cell populations in
the hippocampus. Furthermore, HFD feeding increased TNF-α expression,
myeloperoxidase activity, and CD11b+/CD11c+ cell (macrophages and dendritic
cells) populations in the colon and altered gut microbiota composition including 
increases in the Proteobacteria population, and increases in fecal LPS levels.
The stool lysates of HFD-treated mice suppressed BDNF expression and CREB
phosphorylation in SH-SY5Y cells and increased NF-κB activation in BV-2
microglial cells compared to those of low-fat diet-treated mice while these
effects were attenuated by treatment with anti-LPS antibody. These findings
suggest that excessive intake of HFD can simultaneously cause obesity and
psychiatric disorders by suppressing hippocampal BDNF expression with the
disturbance of gut microbiota composition, particularly the increase in
Proteobacteria population and LPS production.
EOF
BACKGROUND: We have reported that partial PERK attenuation using PERK inhibitors 
(PI) enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) from pancreatic islets 
and mice through induction of ER chaperone BIP. Therefore, we investigated if PI 
would have the same effects in a diabetic condition as well.
METHODS: GSK2606414 was treated to mouse islets under 20-mM glucose and 0.5-mM
palmitate to examine GSIS. To generate a mouse model of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(DM), male C57BL/6 J mice were fed with high-fat diet and injected with
streptozotocin. Several doses (6-16 mg/kg/day) of GSK2656157 and glimepiride were
administrated to the mice for 8 weeks, and metabolic phenotypes were evaluated
such as body weight, blood glucose levels, insulin secretion and sensitivity, and
then changes in the pancreas were measured.
RESULTS: High-glucose and palmitate treatment significantly increased PERK
phosphorylation in the isolated islets. Suppression of GSIS and
glucose-stimulated Ca2+ transit was also observed. PI at 40 nM which decreased
PERK phosphorylation by 40% significantly recovered the GSIS and cytosolic
calcium. In the mice where significant weight gain and prominent hyperglycemia
were induced, PI at 10 mg/kg/day significantly enhanced GSIS and reduced blood
glucose levels compared to the vehicle. The effects were similar to those by
10 mg/kg/day of glimepiride. Administration of PI did not induce changes in beta 
cell mass or pancreatic insulin contents, however, high dose PI decreased
pancreatic weight.
CONCLUSION: PI at low dose significantly enhanced GSIS in vitro and in vivo under
metabolic stress and improved hyperglycemia in the mice mimicking type 2 DM,
suggesting a potential as a new therapeutic approach for type 2 DM.
EOF
Obesity is generally protective against osteoporosis and bone fracture. However, 
recent studies indicate that the influence of obesity on the skeleton is complex 
and can be detrimental. We evaluated the effects of a high-fat, obesogenic diet
on the femur and radius of 1100 mice (males and females) from the Large-by-Small 
advanced intercross line (F34 generation). At age 5 months, bone morphology was
assessed by microCT and mechanical properties by three-point bending. Mice raised
on a high-fat diet had modestly greater cortical area, bending stiffness, and
strength. Size-independent material properties were unaffected by a high-fat
diet, indicating that diet influenced bone quantity but not quality. Bone size
and mechanical properties were strongly correlated with body mass. However, the
increases in many bone traits per unit increase in body mass were less in
high-fat diet mice than low-fat diet mice. Thus, although mice raised on a
high-fat diet have, on average, bigger and stronger bones than low-fat-fed mice, 
a high-fat diet diminished the positive relationship between body mass and bone
size and whole-bone strength. The findings support the concept that there are
diminishing benefits to skeletal health with increasing obesity. © 2019 American 
Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
EOF
Phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) is an important enzyme in
hepatic phosphatidylcholine (PC) biosynthesis. Pemt-/- mice fed a high-fat diet
are protected from obesity and whole-body insulin resistance. However, Pemt-/-
mice develop severe nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Because NASH is often
associated with hepatic insulin resistance, we investigated whether the increased
insulin sensitivity in Pemt-/- mice was restricted to nonhepatic tissues or
whether the liver was also insulin sensitive. Strikingly, the livers of Pemt-/-
mice compared with those of Pemt+/+ mice were not insulin resistant, despite
elevated levels of hepatic triacylglycerols and diacylglycerols, as well as
increased hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. Endogenous glucose production was
lower in Pemt-/- mice under both basal and hyperinsulinemic conditions.
Experiments in primary hepatocytes and hepatoma cells revealed improved insulin
signaling in the absence of PEMT, which was not due to changes in
diacylglycerols, ceramides, or gangliosides. On the other hand, the phospholipid 
composition in hepatocytes seems critically important for insulin signaling such 
that lowering the PC:phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) ratio improves insulin
signaling. Thus, treatments to reduce the PC:PE ratio in liver may protect
against the development of hepatic insulin resistance.-Van der Veen, J. N.,
Lingrell, S., McCloskey, N., LeBlond, N. D., Galleguillos, D., Zhao, Y. Y.,
Curtis, J. M., Sipione, S., Fullerton, M. D., Vance, D. E., Jacobs, R. L. A role 
for phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine in hepatic insulin
signaling.
EOF
Understanding how body weight is regulated at the molecular level is essential
for treating obesity. We show that female mice genetically lacking protein
tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) receptor type α (PTPRA) exhibit reduced weight and
adiposity and increased energy expenditure, and are more resistant to
diet-induced obesity than matched wild-type control mice. These mice also exhibit
reduced levels of circulating leptin and are leptin hypersensitive, suggesting
that PTPRA inhibits leptin signaling in the hypothalamus. Male and female
PTPRA-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet were leaner and displayed increased
metabolic rates and lower circulating leptin levels, indicating that the effects 
of loss of PTPRA persist in the obese state. Molecularly, PTPRA down-regulates
leptin receptor signaling by dephosphorylating the receptor-associated kinase
JAK2, with which the phosphatase associates constitutively. In contrast to the
closely related tyrosine phosphatase ε, leptin induces only weak phosphorylation 
of PTPRA at its C-terminal regulatory site Y789, and this does not affect the
activity of PTPRA toward JAK2. PTPRA is therefore an inhibitor of hypothalamic
leptin signaling in vivo and may prevent premature activation of leptin
signaling, as well as return signaling to baseline after exposure to
leptin.-Cohen-Sharir, Y., Kuperman, Y., Apelblat, D., den Hertog, J., Spiegel,
I., Knobler, H., Elson, A. Protein tyrosine phosphatase alpha inhibits
hypothalamic leptin receptor signaling and regulates body weight in vivo.
EOF
The hypothalamus is essential for regulation of energy homeostasis and
metabolism. Feeding hypercaloric, high-fat (HF) diet induces hypothalamic arcuate
nucleus injury and alters metabolism more severely in male than in female mice.
The site(s) and extent of hypothalamic injury in male and female mice are not
completely understood. In the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, 
Single-Minded Family BHLH Transcription Factor 1 (Sim1) neurons are essential to 
control energy homeostasis. We tested the hypothesis that exposure to HF diet
induces injury to Sim1 neurons in the PVN of male and female mice. Mice
expressing membrane-bound enhanced green fluorescent protein (mEGFP) in Sim1
neurons (Sim1-Cre:Rosa-mEGFP mice) were generated to visualize the effects of
exposure to HF diet on these neurons. Male and female Sim1-Cre:Rosa-mEGFP mice
exposed to HF diet had increased weight, hyperleptinemia, and developed
hepatosteatosis. In male and female mice exposed to HF diet, expression of mEGFP 
was reduced by >40% in Sim1 neurons of the PVN, an effect paralleled by cell
apoptosis and neuronal loss, but not by microgliosis. In the arcuate nucleus of
the Sim1-Cre:Rosa-mEGFP male mice, there was decreased
alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone in pro-opiomelanocortin neurons projecting
to the PVN, with increased cell apoptosis, neuronal loss, and microgliosis. These
defects were undetectable in the arcuate nucleus of female mice exposed to the HF
diet. Thus, injury to Sim1 neurons of the PVN is a shared feature of exposure to 
HF diet in mice of both sexes, while injury to pro-opiomelanocortin neurons in
arcuate nucleus is specific to male mice. This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.
EOF
Background: Overconsumption of energy-dense foods and sleep restriction are both 
associated with the development of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, but
their combined effects remain poorly evaluated.
Objective: The aim of this study was to assess whether sleep restriction
potentiates the effects of a short-term overfeeding on intrahepatocellular lipid 
(IHCL) concentrations and on glucose homeostasis.
Design: Ten healthy subjects were exposed to a 6-d overfeeding period (130% daily
energy needs, with 15% extra energy as sucrose and 15% as fat), with normal sleep
(8 h sleep opportunity time) or sleep restriction (4 h sleep opportunity time),
according to a randomized, crossover design. At baseline and after intervention, 
IHCL concentrations were measured by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and 
a dual intravenous [6,6-2H2]-, oral 13C-labeled glucose tolerance test and a
polysomnographic recording were performed.
Results: Overfeeding significantly increased IHCL concentrations
(Poverfeeding < 0.001; overfeeding + normal sleep: +53% ± 16%). During the oral
glucose tolerance test, overfeeding significantly increased endogenous glucose
production (Poverfeeding = 0.034) and the oxidation of 13C-labeled glucose load
(Poverfeeding = 0.038). Sleep restriction significantly decreased total sleep
time, and the duration of stages 1 and 2 and rapid eye movement sleep (all
P < 0.001), whereas slow-wave sleep duration was preserved (Poverfeeding ×
sleep = 0.809). Compared with overfeeding, overfeeding + sleep restriction did
not change IHCL concentrations (Poverfeeding × sleep = 0.541; +83% ± 33%),
endogenous glucose production (Poverfeeding × sleep = 0.567), or exogenous
glucose oxidation (Poverfeeding × sleep = 0.118). Sleep restriction did not
significantly alter blood pressure, heart rate, or plasma cortisol concentrations
(all Poverfeeding × sleep = NS).
Conclusions: Six days of a high-sucrose, high-fat overfeeding diet significantly 
increased IHCL concentrations and increased endogenous glucose production,
suggesting hepatic insulin resistance. These effects of overfeeding were not
altered by sleep restriction. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
NCT02075723. Other study ID numbers: SleepDep 02/14.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Macronutrient regulation of hyperphagia and adiposity in Prader-Willi 
syndrome (PWS) is poorly understood. We compared fasting and postprandial
concentrations of hormones and metabolites in eight PWS children (age 9-18 years)
fed, in random order, low carbohydrate, high-fat (LC, 15% carb; 65% fat; 20%
protein) and low-fat, high carbohydrate (LF, 65% carb, 15% fat, 20% protein)
diets matched for calories and protein.
METHODS: Participants were randomized to consume either the LC or LF diet during 
a first hospital admission and the second diet during a subsequent admission.
Blood samples were obtained after overnight fasting and 1 hour after a mixed
meal.
RESULTS: Relative to subjects consuming the LF diet, subjects consuming the LC
diet had: lower postprandial insulin concentrations (P = 0.02); higher fasting
GLP-1 AND GIP concentrations and increased postprandial GLP-1 (P < 0.02); reduced
ratio of fasting ghrelin to GLP-1 (P = 0.0078); increased FFA and fatty acid
oxidation, as assessed by concentrations of even-chain acylcarnitines
(P < 0.001); lower fasting TG and TG/HDL ratio (P < 0.01); and higher
concentrations of branch chain amino acids (P < 0.01). There were no changes in
glucose, PYY, or adiponectin. CRP, AST and ALT were all higher (P < 0.01) on the 
LC diet.
CONCLUSIONS: Increases in GLP-1 with low carbohydrate feeding and reductions in
the ratio of ghrelin to GLP-1 might limit food intake and improve glycaemic
control in PWS. Other potential benefits of carbohydrate restriction may include 
fat mobilization and oxidation and reductions in the TG/HDL ratio, a marker of
insulin resistance. However, increases in CRP, AST and ALT necessitate
longer-term studies of low carbohydrate efficacy and safety.
EOF
AIM: We aimed to evaluate the diets of children with type 1 diabetes (T1D)
against recommended Australian dietary intakes and international T1D guidelines
and compare them to children without T1D.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis in 143 children (103 children aged 8-18 years
with T1D and 40 age- and gender-matched controls) and longitudinal analysis at 0,
3, 6 and 12 months in 90 T1D children were conducted. Diet was assessed using an 
Australian validated food frequency questionnaire. Diet quality was assessed
against recommended servings and nutrient intakes from Australian Dietary
Guidelines and International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes
(ISPAD) Nutritional Guidelines.
RESULTS: Diet was evaluated in 478 questionnaires. Diet composition did not
differ between T1D and controls, and both groups did not meet the majority of the
Australian Dietary Guidelines, except for fruit intake. The majority of T1D
children and controls (80-83%) were overconsuming sodium (2837 ± 848 mg/day),
discretionary foods (5.9 ± 2.5 serves/day) and saturated fat and trans fatty
acids (13.1 ± 2.7% of total daily energy intake) in comparison with Australian
and ISPAD guidelines. A total of 84% of T1D children and controls achieved the
recommended intake of fibre (34.4 ± 11.0 g/day). Longitudinal analysis in
children with T1D showed that total daily energy, macronutrient, micronutrient
and food group servings intake did not change over the 12 months. Overconsumption
of sodium, discretionary foods and saturated fat persisted over the 12-month
study period.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of Australian children, with and without T1D, is not
meeting recommended dietary guidelines. Significant overconsumption of sodium,
saturated fat and discretionary foods attracts the most concern.
EOF
The aim of this study was to establish a robust model of diabetic myocardial
hypertrophy in Mus musculus castaneus mice. Mice were fed a high-fat diet for
four weeks and then given streptozotocin (STZ, 40 mg kg-1  d-1 for 5 days,
intraperitoneally) and fasting blood glucose (FBG) levels were tested after
seven days. Mice with FBG levels above 11.1 mmol/L were considered diabetic.
Diabetic mice continued to have access to the high-fat diet until cardiac
hypertrophy developed. FBG and body weight (BW) were measured weekly. Myocardial 
hypertrophy was confirmed by left ventricle (LV) hypertrophy index (LVHI), LV/BW,
LV histopathological observation and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) mRNA
expression. Serum insulin and plasma haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels, total
cholesterol (TCH) and triglyceride (TG) were measured, and then an insulin
resistance index (HOMA.IR) was calculated. The level of FBG in the model group
remained above 11.1 mmol/L, and the BW showed significant weight loss, compared
with the control group (P < 0.01). The high levels of HbA1c, HOME.IR, TCH and TG,
and the low level of insulin suggested that glucose metabolism was not balanced
with insulin resistance; meanwhile, higher TCH and TG showed that dyslipidaemia
had also developed. After the diabetic mice were kept on the high-energy diet for
another four  weeks, histopathological observation showed myocardial injuries,
much more surface area and collagen fibres, higher LVHI and LV/BW, and elevated
expression of ANF mRNA (P < 0.01), suggesting that myocardial hypertrophy had
appeared in Mus musculus castaneus mice under the current experimental
conditions. Thus a robust model of diabetic myocardial hypertrophy was
established four  weeks after confirmation of diabetes, which was induced by
feeding a high-fat diet for four weeks combined with a repeated low-dose STZ
exposure, in Mus musculus castaneus mice.
EOF
BACKGROUND: High fat diet (HFD) and its responsive change of gut microbiota are
associated with numerous diseases in human and animal studies. But how maternal
and post-weaning HFD may influence the tumorigenesis of prostate cancer (PCa) in 
male offspring has not yet been reported.
METHODS: We studied both solitary and combined effects of maternal or/and
post-weaning HFD on the tumorigenesis of prostate in offspring using a transgenic
adenocarcinoma of mouse prostate (TRAMP) model. TRAMP male mice (n = 24) were
born to and fostered onto control diet or HFD-fed mothers, the weaned pups were
further fed control or fat diet. All mice were sacrificed at the 28th week. The
prostate histopathology was performed. The gut microbiota was analyzed by fecal
16S rRNA pyrosequencing, and the serum metabolites were determined by LC-MS/MS.
RESULTS: Our results indicated that post-weaning HFD could significantly promote 
the PCa tumorigenesis in offspring (P = 0.031), and similar results were found in
maternal HFD group but with no significant differences (P = 0.056). However,
combined maternal and post-weaning HFD could significantly reduce the PCa
tumorigenesis in offspring (P = 0.019). Significant differences in specific
microbial populations and serum metabolites were observed across groups. For
example, mice with combined maternal and post-weaning HFD had higher abundance of
gut Lachonospiraceae, Roseburia, and Amycolatopsis, increased serum L-methionine 
(P = 0.0052), and decreased serum α-linolenic acid (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the inhibitory effects of combined maternal
and post-weaning HFD on PCa tumorigenesis, and provides new insights into the
interactions between diet, gut microbiota, serum metabolites, and PCa.
EOF
Cellular senescence entails a stable cell-cycle arrest and a pro-inflammatory
secretory phenotype, which contributes to aging and age-related diseases. Obesity
is associated with increased senescent cell burden and neuropsychiatric
disorders, including anxiety and depression. To investigate the role of
senescence in obesity-related neuropsychiatric dysfunction, we used the INK-ATTAC
mouse model, from which p16Ink4a-expressing senescent cells can be eliminated,
and senolytic drugs dasatinib and quercetin. We found that obesity results in the
accumulation of senescent glial cells in proximity to the lateral ventricle, a
region in which adult neurogenesis occurs. Furthermore, senescent glial cells
exhibit excessive fat deposits, a phenotype we termed "accumulation of lipids in 
senescence." Clearing senescent cells from high fat-fed or leptin
receptor-deficient obese mice restored neurogenesis and alleviated
anxiety-related behavior. Our study provides proof-of-concept evidence that
senescent cells are major contributors to obesity-induced anxiety and that
senolytics are a potential new therapeutic avenue for treating neuropsychiatric
disorders.
EOF
Although the inclusion of fat has reduced methane production in ruminants,
relatively little research has been conducted comparing the effects of source and
profile of fatty acids on methane production in lactating dairy cows. A study
using 8 multiparous (325 ± 17 DIM; mean ± SD) lactating Jersey cows was conducted
to determine effects of feeding canola meal and lard versus extruded byproduct
containing flaxseed as a high-C18:3 fat source on methane production and diet
digestibility in late-lactation dairy cows. A crossover design with 32-d periods 
(28-d adaption and 4-d collections) was used to compare 2 different fat sources. 
Diets contained approximately 50% forage mixture of corn silage, alfalfa hay, and
brome hay; the concentrate mixture changed between diets to include either (1) a 
conventional diet of corn, soybean meal, and canola meal with lard (control) or
(2) a conventional diet of corn and soybean meal with an extruded byproduct
containing flaxseed (EXF) as the fat source. Diets were balanced to decrease
corn, lard, and canola meal and replace them with soybean mean and EXF to
increase the concentration of C18:3 (0.14 vs. 1.20% of DM). Methane production
was measured using headbox-style indirect calorimeters. Cattle were restricted to
95% ad libitum feed intake during collections. Milk production (17.4 ± 1.04 kg/d)
and dry matter intake (15.4 ± 0.71 kg/d) were similar among treatments. Milk fat 
(5.88 ± 0.25%) and protein (4.08 ± 0.14%) were not affected by treatment. For
methane production, no difference was observed for total production (352.0 vs.
349.8 ± 16.43 L/d for control vs. EXF, respectively). Methane production per unit
of dry matter intake was not affected and averaged 23.1 ± 0.57 L/kg. Similarly,
methane production per unit of energy-corrected milk was not affected by fat
source and averaged 15.5 ± 0.68 L/kg. Heat production was similar, averaging 21.1
± 1.02 Mcal/d. Digestibility of organic matter, neutral detergent fiber, and
crude protein was not affected by diet and averaged 69.9, 53.6, and 73.3%,
respectively. Results indicated that increasing C18:3 may not affect methane
production or digestibility of the diet in lactating dairy cows.
EOF
Formulating diets with high inclusion rates of a feed that provides necessary
nutrients at lower-than-market prices for those nutrients should increase income 
over feed costs if the feed is not detrimental to yields of milk and milk
components. The objective of this study was to determine whether cows fed a diet 
composed of approximately 53% corn silage, 44% corn milling product (68% dry
matter, 21% crude protein, 37% neutral detergent fiber, and 9% starch) and 3%
minerals (CMP) would have similar productivity as cows fed a control diet of
predominantly corn silage, alfalfa silage, corn grain, and soybean meal. Based on
the National Research Council (2001) dairy model, the CMP diet was inadequate in 
metabolizable methionine and extremely low in metabolizable lysine. A third
treatment (CMP+AA) was the same as the CMP diet but was supplemented with
rumen-protected lysine and methionine. Twenty-one Holstein cows were used in a
replicated Latin square (28-d periods) design to evaluate production responses to
the 3 diets. Diets were formulated to contain the same concentration of net
energy for lactation and metabolizable protein (MP) based on the National
Research Council model, but diets with CMP contained more neutral detergent fiber
(38.3 vs. 31.4%) and less starch (21.6 vs. 30.5%) than the control diet. Lysine
as a percent of MP was 6.5, 6.0, and 6.8 for the control, CMP, and CMP+AA diets, 
respectively, and methionine was 1.8, 1.8, and 2.3% of MP, respectively. Dry
matter intake was not affected by diet (24.3 kg/d), but milk yield was lower for 
cows fed either CMP diet than for those fed control (36.0 vs 38.1 kg/d). Milk fat
concentrations were normal and not affected by diet (3.7%). Milk protein
concentration was greater for cows fed CMP+AA than for cows fed the other 2
treatments (3.19 vs. 3.11%); however, milk protein yield was greatest for cows
fed the conventional diet. The concentration of methionine in plasma was
significantly greater for cows fed CMP+AA than for cows fed the other diets.
Plasma lysine concentrations were greater for cows fed the conventional diet than
for those fed the other 2 diets. Plasma concentrations of several essential AA
were lower for cows fed either CMP diet. Based on calculated energy balance,
diets contained similar concentrations of net energy for lactation, but cows fed 
CMP diets partitioned more energy toward body energy reserves than did control
cows, perhaps because supply of specific AA limited milk synthesis.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Pacific Island countries are experiencing a high burden of
diet-related non-communicable diseases; and consumption of fat, sugar and salt
are important modifiable risk factors contributing to this. The present study
systematically reviewed and summarized available literature on dietary intakes of
fat, sugar and salt in the Pacific Islands.
DESIGN: Electronic databases (PubMed, Scopus, ScienceDirect and GlobalHealth)
were searched from 2005 to January 2018. Grey literature was also searched and
key stakeholders were consulted for additional information. Study eligibility was
assessed by two authors and quality was evaluated using a modified tool for
assessing dietary intake studies.
RESULTS: Thirty-one studies were included, twenty-two contained information on
fat, seventeen on sugar and fourteen on salt. Dietary assessment methods varied
widely and six different outcome measures for fat, sugar and salt intake -
absolute intake, household expenditure, percentage contribution to energy intake,
sources, availability and dietary behaviours - were used. Absolute intake of fat 
ranged from 25·4 g/d in Solomon Islands to 98·9 g/d in Guam, while salt intake
ranged from 5·6 g/d in Kiribati to 10·3 g/d in Fiji. Only Guam reported on
absolute sugar intake (47·3 g/d). Peer-reviewed research studies used
higher-quality dietary assessment methods, while reports from national surveys
had better participation rates but mostly utilized indirect methods to quantify
intake.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the established and growing crisis of diet-related diseases 
in the Pacific, there is inadequate evidence about what Pacific Islanders are
eating. Pacific Island countries need nutrition monitoring systems to fully
understand the changing diets of Pacific Islanders and inform effective policy
interventions.
EOF
Rapidly accumulating evidence supports the important role of gut microbiome in
the regulation of mood, behaviour, appetite, gastrointestinal symptomology, and
nutrient metabolism. These are all core features frequently altered in
individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN). Current treatment recommendations for AN 
support the use of high-calorie diets as an essential part of nutritional
rehabilitation, commonly achieved by elevating the fat content of the diet.
However, in contrast to this approach, there is accumulating evidence suggesting 
the importance of balanced, high-fibre diets on the gut microbiome. Studies have 
demonstrated profound differences in the microbial composition of underweight
people with AN and those of normal- or overweight individuals. Specific
alterations vary widely between studies. It is thus far unclear to what extent
the observed differences are brought on by iatrogenic effects of nutritional
rehabilitation or the disorder itself. To date, only two studies have
investigated the changes in the intestinal microbiota during nutritional
rehabilitation and corresponding weight restoration. These studies suggest that
the gut microbiome of AN patients was different to healthy controls both prior
and following nutritional rehabilitation, though it is noted that these states
were associated with lower and higher nutritional intakes, respectively. There is
a clear need for further investigation regarding the effects of nutritional
rehabilitation on the gut microbiome. Such research would provide insights into
the potential role of gut microbiome in modulating the pathophysiology of AN and 
inform future treatment strategies.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Evidence for the combined association of the quality of dietary
carbohydrates and fats during pregnancy with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) 
is scarce. The aim of this study was to identify dietary patterns during
pregnancy, derived by the reduced-rank regression (RRR) model, associated with
fiber density (g/1000 kcal) and the Thrombogenicity Index (TI) and to investigate
their relationship with GDM.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study conducted with 785 pregnant women at
gestational weeks 24 to 39. The diagnosis of GDM was based on the World Health
Organization criteria. One 24-h dietary recall was obtained from all women and a 
second measurement from 73% of the sample, with the multiple source method used
to estimate the usual diet. The patterns were determined by RRR, and the
relationship with GDM was investigated using adjusted logistic regression models.
RESULTS: The mean (standard deviation) age of the women was 28 y and 17.7% had
GDM. Dietary pattern 1 (high rice, beans, and vegetables, with low full-fat dairy
products, biscuits, and sweets) correlated positively with fiber density and
negatively with TI and was inversely associated with GDM after multiple
adjustments (odds ratio [OR], 0.58; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.36-0.95;
P = 0.03). Dietary pattern 2 (high red meats, full-fat dairy products, chocolate 
powder and fruits, with low chicken and margarine) correlated positively with
both TI and fiber density, with no association with GDM found (OR, 1.48; 95% CI, 
0.91-2.40; P = 0.11).
CONCLUSION: These data highlight the joint importance of the quality of dietary
carbohydrates and fats in the dietary patterns of pregnant women in relation to
the risk for developing GDM.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the mechanism of concurrent exercise effect on lipid
disorders in insulin resistance (IR) and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty male ApoE knockout mice were randomly divided into 
two groups: HFD group (n = 10) fed a high fat diet, and HFDE group (n = 10) with 
high-fat diet intervention for 12 weeks and swimming exercise. Other ten healthy 
male C57BL/6 J mice were fed a normal diet, and included as control group.
Retro-orbital blood samples were collected for biochemical analysis. Oil red O
staining of liver tissues was performed to confirm the exercise effect. Western
blotting was performed to evaluate the expressions of PPAR-γ, CPT-1, MCAD.
RESULTS: The levels of TG, TC, LDL, FFA, FIN, FPG and Homa-IRI in the HFD group
were significantly higher than ND group, while these were markedly decreased in
the HFDE group compared with HFD group. The Oil Red O staining of liver samples
further confirmed the exercise effect on the change of lipid deposition in the
liver. Western blotting showed increased expressions of PPAR-γ, CPT-1, MCAD
induced by high fat diet were significantly downregulated by exercise.
CONCLUSION: A concurrent 12-week exercise protocol alleviated the lipid
metabolism disorders of IR and NAFLD, probably via PPAR-γ/CPT-1/MCAD signaling.

EOF
BACKGROUND: Excess energy intake contributes to metabolic disorders. However, the
relationship between excess sugar and fat in their contributions to metabolic
abnormalities remains to be further elucidated. Here we conducted a prospective
feeding experiment to evaluate effects of dietary fat-to-sugar ratio on
diet-induced metabolic abnormalities in adult cynomolgus monkeys.
METHODS: Four groups of adult cynomolgus monkeys were fed regular chow plus
emulsion with combinations of high sugar (HS) or low sugar (HS) and low fat (LF) 
or high fat (HF) for 7 months. Plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC),
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol
(HDL-C), triglyceride (TG) and blood glucose were measured for all the four
groups of animals during the experiment.
RESULTS: Plasma levels of TC and LDL-C gradually increased in all 4 diets groups,
with the highest increase found in the LSHF group compared to the other three
groups (P = 0.0018 and P = 0.0005 respectively). HF induced increased fasting
glucose (P = 0.0077) and HS induced higher TG (P = 0.0227) respectively.
Intriguingly, HSHF led to dramatically smaller magnitude of increase in LDL-C and
TC levels compared to LSHF, while such difference was absent between the LSLF and
LSHF groups. Our findings thus indicate interactive effects of HS and HF on TC
and LDL-C. In addition, HF exhibited stronger effects on lipid abnormalities than
HS.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study, our prospective feeding experiment in adult
cynomolgus monkeys revealed effects of different fat-to-sugar ratios on
diet-induced metabolic abnormalities. Furthermore, our findings suggest that not 
only excess dietary energy but also the balance of dietary fat-to-sugar ratio
matters in diet-induced lipid abnormalities.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Gut microbiota plays a crucial role in host energy homeostasis, which 
is affected by both high-fat diets (HFDs) and high-sucrose diets (HCDs).
Probiotics treatment can effectively modulate intestinal microbiota. However, it 
remains unclear whether probiotics can effectively improve HFD- and HCD-induced
microbiota dysbiosis.
METHODS: Mice were fed either an HFD, HCD, or normal diet for 13 wk and
administered probiotics during the last 4 wk of the diet. Fecal and cecal samples
were collected and analyzed by high-throughput 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing.
RESULTS: Body weight increased more in the HFD group compared with the HCD group.
Probiotics supplementation slowed weight gain in both the HFD and HCD groups.
Both the HFD and HCD reduced microbial diversity, abundance of butyric
acid-producing bacteria, and some other beneficial bacteria, including
Lactobacillus, Clostridium sensu stricto, Prevotella, and Alloprevotella, but
increased conditional pathogenic bacteria, such as Bacteroides, Alistipes, and
Anaerotruncus. Probiotics markedly restored the proportions of bacteria affected 
in the HFD and HCD groups and increased the abundance of microbiota negatively
associated with obesity, including Bifidobacterium, Lactococcus, and Akkermansia.
In addition, Oscillibacter, Escherichia/Shigella, Acinetobacter, and Blautia
significantly increased in the HCD group; Allobaculum, Olsenella, and
Ruminococcus were significantly changed in the HFD group. HCD-induced microbiota 
dysbiosis was more susceptible to probiotics treatment compared with the HFD.
CONCLUSIONS: Probiotics treatment can mitigate diet-induced obesity partly
through modulating intestinal microbiota, especially in HCD-induced obesity.

EOF
Sclareol is a bioactive hydrophobic diterpene in the essential oil isolated from 
Salvia sclarea (Fam. Lamiaceae). Sclareol has been widely studied due to its
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects.AIMS: The present study aimed to
evaluate the effects of Sclareol in different formulations (solid lipid
nanoparticle and free) on the metabolic profile of obese mice.
MAIN METHODS: Swiss male mice were randomly divided into two groups: standard
diet (STD) and high-fat diet (HFD). After obesity induction, each group was
divided into three treatment groups: free Sclareol (Sc), Sclareol-loaded lipid
nanoparticle (L-Sc) and blank lipid nanoparticle (L). Treatments were performed
every day during 30 days.
KEY FINDINGS: L-Sc improves obese mice metabolic profile by decreasing adiposity,
ameliorating insulin sensitivity, glucose tolerance and increasing the HDL plasma
levels. In addition, L-Sc decreased the expression of NF-KB, MCP-1 and SERBP-1.
SIGNIFICANCE: The use of sclareol together with lipid nanocarriers may be
promising for the treatment of metabolic disorders by reducing adipose tissue.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The gut microbiota evolves from birth and is in early life influenced
by events such as birth mode, type of infant feeding, and maternal and infant
antibiotics use. However, we still have a gap in our understanding of gut
microbiota development in older children, and to what extent early events and
pre-school lifestyle modulate the composition of the gut microbiota, and how this
impinges on whole body metabolic regulation in school-age children.
RESULTS: Taking advantage of the KOALA Birth Cohort Study, a long-term
prospective birth cohort in the Netherlands with extensive collection of
high-quality host metadata, we applied shotgun metagenomics sequencing and
systematically investigated the gut microbiota of children at 6-9 years of age.
We demonstrated an overall adult-like gut microbiota in the 281 Dutch school-age 
children and identified 3 enterotypes dominated by the genera Bacteroides,
Prevotella, and Bifidobacterium, respectively. Importantly, we found that
breastfeeding duration in early life and pre-school dietary lifestyle correlated 
with the composition and functional competences of the gut microbiota in the
children at school age. The correlations between pre-school dietary lifestyle and
metabolic phenotypes exhibited a striking enterotype dependency. Thus, an inverse
correlation between high dietary fiber consumption and low plasma insulin levels 
was only observed in individuals with the Bacteroides and Prevotella enterotypes,
but not in Bifidobacterium enterotype individuals in whom the gut microbiota
displayed overall lower microbial gene richness, alpha-diversity, functional
potential for complex carbohydrate fermentation, and butyrate and succinate
production. High total fat consumption and elevated plasma free fatty acid levels
in the Bifidobacterium enterotype are associated with the co-occurrence of
Streptococcus.
CONCLUSIONS: Our work highlights the persistent effects of breastfeeding duration
and pre-school dietary lifestyle in affecting the gut microbiota in school-age
children and reveals distinct compositional and functional potential in children 
according to enterotypes. The findings underscore enterotype-specific links
between the host metabolic phenotypes and dietary patterns, emphasizing the
importance of microbiome-based stratification when investigating metabolic
responses to diets. Future diet intervention studies are clearly warranted to
examine gut microbe-diet-host relationships to promote knowledge-based
recommendations in relation to improving metabolic health in children.

EOF
Adenanthin, a natural ent-kaurane diterpenoid extracted from the herb Isodon
adenantha, has been reported to increase intracellular reactive oxygen species in
leukemic and hepatocellular carcinoma cells. However, the function and mechanism 
of the compound in adipogenesis and the development of obesity is still unknown. 
In this study, we demonstrated that adenanthin inhibited adipogenesis of 3T3-L1
and mouse embryonic fibroblasts, and the underlying mechanism included two
processes: a delayed mitotic clonal expansion via G0/G1 cell cycle arrest by
inhibiting the RB-E2F1 signaling pathway and a reduced C/EBPβ signaling by
inhibiting the expression and activity of C/EBPβ during mitotic clonal expansion.
Furthermore, adenanthin significantly reduced the growing body weight and adipose
tissue mass during high-fat diet-inducing obesity of mice, indicating the
beneficial effects of adenanthin as a potential agent for prevention of obesity.

EOF
Serum vitamin D levels negatively correlate with obesity and associated disorders
such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, the mechanisms linking low
vitamin D (VD) status to disease progression are not completely understood. In
this study, we analyzed the effect of VD treatment on NASH in mice. C57BL6/J mice
were fed a high-fat/high-sugar diet (HFSD) containing low amounts of VD for 16
weeks to induce obesity, NASH and liver fibrosis. The effects of preventive and
interventional VD treatment were studied on the level of liver histology and
hepatic/intestinal gene expression. Interestingly, preventive and to a lesser
extent also interventional VD treatment resulted in improvements of liver
histology. This included a significant decrease of steatosis, a trend towards
lower non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) activity score and a slight
non-significant decrease of fibrosis in the preventive treatment group. In line
with these changes, preventive VD treatment reduced the hepatic expression of
lipogenic, inflammatory and pro-fibrotic genes. Notably, these beneficial effects
occurred in conjunction with a reduction of intestinal inflammation. Together,
our observations suggest that timely initiation of VD supplementation (preventive
vs. interventional) is a critical determinant of treatment outcome in NASH. In
the applied animal model, the improvements of liver histology occurred in
conjunction with reduced inflammation in the gut, suggesting a potential
relevance of vitamin D as a therapeutic agent acting on the gut⁻liver axis.

EOF
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutation
of the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Although RTT has been
associated with obesity, the underlying mechanism has not yet been elucidated. In
this study, female heterozygous Mecp2-null mice (Mecp2+/- mice), a model of RTT, 
were fed a normal chow diet or high-fat diet (HFD), and the changes in molecular 
signaling pathways were investigated. Specifically, we examined the expression of
genes related to the hypothalamus and dopamine reward circuitry, which represent 
a central network of feeding behavior control. In particular, dopamine reward
circuitry has been shown to regulate hedonic feeding behavior, and its disruption
is associated with HFD-related changes in palatability. The Mecp2+/- mice that
were fed the normal chow showed normal body weight and food consumption, whereas 
those fed the HFD showed extreme obesity with hyperphagia, an increase of body
fat mass, glucose intolerance, and insulin resistance compared with wild-type
mice fed the HFD (WT-HFD mice). The main cause of obesity in Mecp2+/--HFD mice
was a remarkable increase in calorie intake, with no difference in oxygen
consumption or locomotor activity. Agouti-related peptide mRNA and protein levels
were increased, whereas proopiomelanocortin mRNA and protein levels were reduced 
in Mecp2+/--HFD mice with hyperleptinemia, which play an essential role in
appetite and satiety in the hypothalamus. The conditioned place preference test
revealed that Mecp2+/- mice preferred the HFD. Tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine 
transporter mRNA levels in the ventral tegmental area, and dopamine receptor and 
dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein mRNA levels in the nucleus accumbens 
were significantly lower in Mecp2+/--HFD mice than those of WT-HFD mice. Thus,
HFD feeding induced dysregulation of food intake in the hypothalamus and dopamine
reward circuitry, and accelerated the development of extreme obesity associated
with addiction-like eating behavior in Mecp2+/- mice.

EOF
OBJECTIVE: To identify nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and liver stiffness in
Mexican subjects with different body mass index (BMI).
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in 505 adults. Risk for NASH was
defined as the presence of one or more of the following biochemical and metabolic
parameters (BMPs): fasting glucose ≥100 mg/dl, triglycerides (TG) ≥150 mg/dl,
homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) ≥2.5, aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) >54 IU/L and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >42 IU/L. Body
mass index measurement and nutritional assessment were performed by standard
procedures. Liver fibrosis stage was determined by liver stiffness measurement
using transitional elastography (TE) or by liver biopsy (LB).
RESULTS: Risk for NASH was 57% (290/505). Most BMPs values incremented by BMI
category. Among 171 at-risk patients, 106 subjects were evaluated by TE and 65
subjects by LB. Abnormal liver stiffness (≥6.0 kPa) was prevalent in 54% (57/106)
of the cases, whereas by LB, 91% (59/65) of patients with obesity had NASH and
liver fibrosis. Furthermore, liver fibrosis was prevalent in 46% (6/13) in normal
weight individuals, whereas 4.6% (3/65) of patients with a BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2 showed 
no histopathological abnormalities. Overall, 67.8% (116/171) of the patients had 
abnormal liver stiffness or NASH. The normal weight patients with liver damage
consumed relatively a higher fat-rich diet compared to the other groups whereas
the remaining subgroups shared a similar dietary pattern.
CONCLUSION: Young patients with overweight and obesity showed a high prevalence
of altered BMPs related to abnormal liver stiffness assessed by TE and NASH by
LB. Early diagnostic strategies are required to detect the risk for NASH and
avoid further liver damage in populations with a rising prevalence of obesity by 
defining the risk factors involved in the onset and progression of NASH.
EOF
BACKGROUND The uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) gene has a role in mitochondrial
energy expenditure in brown adipose tissue. This study aimed to investigate the
effects of berberine, a benzylisoquinoline alkaloid used in traditional Chinese
medicine, on energy expenditure, expression of the UCP1 gene, the cell stress
protein inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α), apoptosis genes, and macrophage
phenotype (M1 and M2) in white and brown adipose tissue in an obese mouse model
fed a high-fat diet. MATERIAL AND METHODS Four-week-old C57BL/6J male mice (n=20)
were divided into a high-fat diet group, a normal diet group, a group treated
with berberine at 100 mg/kg/d in 0.9% normal saline, and a non-treated group.
Whole-body fat mass, blood glucose, insulin resistance, and oxygen expenditure
during physical activity were measured. After 16 weeks, the mice were euthanized 
for examination of liver and adipose tissue. The expression of pro-inflammatory
cytokines, apoptosis genes, thermogenic genes (including UCP1), and IRE1α, were
investigated using immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and quantitative reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), in white and brown adipose
tissue. Magnetic cell sorting harvested M1 and M2 macrophages in adipose tissue. 
Clodronate liposomes were used to inhibit macrophage recruitment. RESULTS
Berberine treatment in mice fed a high-fat diet increased energy metabolism,
glucose tolerance, and expression of UCP1, and reduced expression of
pro-inflammatory cytokines, macrophage recruitment, and resulted in M2 macrophage
polarization in white adipose tissue. Polarized M2 macrophages showed reduced
expression of apoptotic genes and IRE1α. CONCLUSIONS Berberine improved metabolic
function in a mouse model fed a high-fat diet.
EOF
The present study aims to determine the most suitable dietary balance of
energy-producing nutrients for recovery from starvation. Rats were fed their
standard high- carbohydrate diet (HCD, carbohydrate energy : protein energy : fat
energy=71 : 18 : 11) for 7 d and then deprived of food for 3 d (short-term
starvation) or 8 d (long-term starvation). The starved rats were then fed the
HCD, a high-protein diet (HPD, 31 : 57 : 12), or a high-fat diet (HFD, 34 : 14 : 
52) for 8 d. Rats had ad libitum access to drinking water throughout the
experimental period, including the starvation period. The reference group was
allowed free access to the HCD throughout the experimental period.
Characteristically, increased drinking, increased urea nitrogen in the plasma and
urine, and hypertrophy of the kidneys, were observed in the HPD group.
Furthermore, the recovery of plasma glucose level was insufficient in this group.
Therefore, administration of a HPD was contraindicated in recovery from
starvation. The recovery of body weight after starvation was excellent in the HFD
group. No effect on the metabolism of B-group vitamins involved in energy
metabolism was found with the administration of any diet. The effects of HCD and 
HFD administration on recovery from starvation were investigated in further
detail. No adverse effects were observed on the tissue to body weight mass ratios
or biochemical parameters in blood in the HFD group. From the above findings, it 
is hypothesized that a HFD is most suitable for quickly reversing the influence
of starvation.
EOF
Adiponectin, the most abundant adipose tissue-derived adipocytokine, improves
insulin sensitivity and has anti-inflammatory properties. Disulfide-bond A
oxidoreductase-like protein (DsbA-L) is a key molecule in the multimerization of 
adiponectin (i.e., activation of adiponectin). In mice, liver-specific knockout
of the Dsba-L gene impaired the mitochondrial function in hepatocytes and
exacerbated the high-fat-diet-induced fatty liver. In addition, the DsbA-L mRNA
level is negatively correlated with body mass index (BMI) in humans. We recently 
investigated the clinical impact of the DsbA-L gene on lifestyle-related diseases
in Japanese subjects. We confirmed the influence of the common DsbA-L rs1917760
polymorphism on the multimerization of adiponectin, as well as the association of
the polymorphism with the risk of obesity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, 
using prediction models based on a non-linear mixed effect model and/or
structural equation models among elderly participants in a health screening
program. We also observed a decreasing effect of DsbA-L polymorphism on the
DsbA-L mRNA level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and an increasing effect
of the polymorphism on the prevalence of excessive weight among schizophrenia
patients at a high risk for obesity. These findings suggest that DsbA-L may be a 
key molecule associated with the development and progression of obesity and its
related diseases. Therefore, genotyping the DsbA-L polymorphism and identifying
patients at a high risk of developing obesity may help prevent obesity and its
complications by facilitating targeted prevention and treatment programs for
high-risk individuals.
EOF
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are PPARγ agonists that represent an effective class of
insulin sensitizing agents; however, clinical use is associated with weight gain 
and peripheral edema. To elucidate the role of PPARγ expression in endothelial
cells (ECs) in these side effects, EC-specific PPARγ knockout (PpargΔEC) mice
were placed on high fat diet to promote PPARγ agonist-induced plasma volume
expansion, and then treated with the TZD rosiglitazone. Compared to control
Ppargf/f mice, PpargΔEC treated with rosiglitazone are resistant to an increase
in extracellular fluid, water content in epididymal and inguinal white adipose
tissue, and plasma volume expansion. Interestingly, histological assessment
confirmed significant rosiglitazone-mediated capillary dilation within white
adipose tissue of Ppargf/f mice, but not PpargΔEC mice. Analysis of ECs isolated 
from untreated mice in both strains suggests the involvement of changes in
endothelial junction formation. Specifically, compared to cells from Ppargf/f
mice, PpargΔEC cells have a 15-fold increase in focal adhesion kinase, critically
important in EC focal adhesions, and >3-fold significant increase in vascular
endothelial cadherin, the main component of focal adhesions. Together, these
results indicate that rosiglitazone has direct effects on the endothelium via
PPARγ activation, and point towards a critical role for PPARγ in ECs during
rosiglitazone-mediated plasma volume expansion.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Recently, it has been noted that natural herbal medications may be
effective in treating obesity. Tongbi-san (TBS) is a traditional medicine usually
used for dysuria (i.e., painful urination), containing three herbs, Cyperus
rotundus L., Citrus unshiu Markovich, and Poria cocos. In this study, we aimed to
examine whether TBS can inhibit high-fat diet (HFD)-induced adipogenesis in the
liver and epididymal adipose tissue of obese mice.
METHODS: Male C57BL/6 N mice were fed a normal diet, an HFD, an HFD plus orlistat
10 or 20 mg/kg, or an HFD plus TBS 50 or 100 mg/kg for 11 weeks. Body weight was 
checked weekly and histological tissue examinations were investigated. An
expression of genes involved in adipogenesis was also assessed.
RESULTS: Oral administration of TBS significantly reduced body weight and
decreased epididymal and visceral white adipose tissue (WAT) weight. In addition,
we found that TBS enhanced the expression of the adenosine
monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and inhibited the expression of
transcription factors, such as CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBPs), sterol
regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1), and peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) in the liver and epididymal WAT as
measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
(qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that the anti-obesity effects of TBS may
be linked to the activation of AMPK.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Overfeeding of high-concentrate diet (HC) frequently leads to
subacute ruminal acidosis (SARA) in modern dairy cows' production. Thiamine
supplementation has been confirmed to attenuate HC induced SARA by increasing
ruminal pH and ratio of acetate to propionate, and decreasing rumen lactate,
biogenic amines and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The effects of thiamine
supplementation in HC on rumen bacteria and fungi profile had been detected in
our previous studies, however, effects of thiamine supplementation in HC on rumen
non-methanogen archaea is still unclear. The objective of the present study was
therefore to investigate the effects of thiamine supplementation on ruminal
archaea, especially non-methanogens in HC induced SARA cows.
RESULTS: HC feeding significantly decreased dry matter intake, milk production,
milk fat content, ruminal pH and the concentrations of thiamine and acetate in
rumen fluid compared with control diet (CON) (P < 0.05), while the concentrations
of propionate and ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) were significantly increased compared 
with CON (P < 0.05). These changes caused by HC were inversed by thiamine
supplementation (P < 0.05). The taxonomy results showed that ruminal archaea
ranged from 0.37 to 0.47% of the whole microbiota. Four characterized phyla, a
number of Candidatus archaea and almost 660 species were identified in the
present study. In which Euryarchaeota occupied the largest proportion of the
whole archaea. Furthermore, thiamine supplementation treatment significantly
increased the relative abundance of non-methanogens compared with CON and HC
treatments. Thaumarchaeota was increased in HC compared with CON. Thiamine
supplementation significantly increased Crenarchaeota, Nanoarchaeota and the
Candidatus phyla, however decreased Thaumarchaeota compared with HC treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: HC feeding significantly decreased ruminal pH and increased the
content of NH3-N which led to N loss and the increase of the relative abundance
of Thaumarchaeota. Thiamine supplementation increased ruminal pH, improved the
activity of ammonia utilizing bacteria, and decreased Thaumarchaeota abundance to
reduce the ruminal NH3 content and finally reduced N loss. Overall, these
findings contributed to the understanding of thiamine's function in dairy cows
and provided new strategies to improve dairy cows' health under high-concentrate 
feeding regime.
EOF
Previous in vitro studies have implied that triphenyl phosphate (TPHP) may act as
an obesogen. However, its specific contributions to the progression of obesity
and related metabolic diseases are still unclear in vivo in mice. In this study, 
we evaluated the effects of in utero and lactational exposure to three doses of
TPHP (10, 100, and 1000 μg/kg BW) on obesity and metabolic dysfunctions in adult 
male mice fed a low-fat diet (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD), by examining body
weight, liver weight, histopathology, blood biochemistry, gene expression, and
gut microbiota compositions and metabolic functions. Results showed that TPHP
exposure led to increased body weight, liver weight, fat mass, hepatic steatosis,
impaired glucose homeostasis, and insulin resistance, and mRNA levels of genes
involved in lipid metabolism, especially lipogenesis and lipid accumulation, were
significantly altered by TPHP treatment. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
(GC-MS) analysis further supported the changes in fatty acid composition.
Intestinal flora measurements by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and 1H NMR based fecal 
metabolomics indicated that TPHP treatment modulated gut microbiome composition
and influenced host-gut co-metabolism, especially for bile acids and short chain 
fatty acids (SCFAs). These results suggest that fetal exposure to TPHP can
promote the development of obesity and metabolic dysfunctions in adult mice.
EOF
Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (Cpt1a) is a rate-limiting enzyme that mediates 
the transport of fatty acids into the mitochondria for subsequent beta-oxidation.
The objective of this study was to uncover how diet mediates the transcriptional 
regulation of Cpt1a. Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to either a
high-fat (HF) or low-fat control diet during gestation and lactation. At weaning,
male offspring received either a HF or control diet, creating 4 groups: lifelong 
control diet (C/C; n = 12), perinatal HF diet (HF/C; n = 9), post-weaning HF diet
(C/HF; n = 10), and lifelong HF diet (HF/HF; n = 10). Only HF/HF animals had
higher hepatic Cpt1a mRNA expression than C/C. Epigenetic analysis revealed
reduced DNA methylation (DNAMe) and increased histone 3 lysine 4 dimethylation
(H3K4Me2) upstream and within the promoter of Cpt1a in the HF/HF group. This was 
accompanied by increased peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARα)
and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPβ) binding directly downstream of
the Cpt1a transcription start site within the first intron. Findings were
confirmed in rat hepatoma H4IIEC3 cells treated with non-esterified fatty acid
(NEFA). After 12 h of NEFA treatment, there was an enrichment of SWI/SNF related 
matrix associated actin dependent regulator of chromatin subfamily D member 1
(BAF60a or SMARCD1) in the first intron of Cpt1a. We conclude that dietary fat
elevates hepatic Cpt1a expression via a highly coordinated transcriptional
mechanism involving increased H3K4Me2, reduced DNAMe, and recruitment of C/EBPβ, 
PPARα, PGC1α, and BAF60a to the gene.
EOF
We demonstrated the metabolic benefits of Parabacteroides distasonis (PD) on
decreasing weight gain, hyperglycemia, and hepatic steatosis in ob/ob and
high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. Treatment with live P. distasonis (LPD)
dramatically altered the bile acid profile with elevated lithocholic acid (LCA)
and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and increased the level of succinate in the gut. 
In vitro cultivation of PD demonstrated its capacity to transform bile acids and 
production of succinate. Succinate supplementation in the diet decreased
hyperglycemia in ob/ob mice via the activation of intestinal gluconeogenesis
(IGN). Gavage with a mixture of LCA and UDCA reduced hyperlipidemia by activating
the FXR pathway and repairing gut barrier integrity. Co-treatment with succinate 
and LCA/UDCA mirrored the benefits of LPD. The binding target of succinate was
identified as fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, the rate-limiting enzyme in IGN. The
succinate and secondary bile acids produced by P. distasonis played key roles in 
the modulation of host metabolism.
EOF
Skeletal muscle accumulates ceramides in obesity, which contribute to the
development of obesity-associated insulin resistance. However, it remained
unclear which distinct ceramide species in this organ contributes to instatement 
of systemic insulin resistance. Here, ceramide profiling of high-fat
diet (HFD)-fed animals revealed increased skeletal muscle C18:0 ceramide content,
concomitant with increased expression of ceramide synthase (CerS)1. Mice lacking 
CerS1, either globally or specifically in skeletal muscle (CerS1ΔSkM), exhibit
reduced muscle C18:0 ceramide content and significant improvements in systemic
glucose homeostasis. CerS1ΔSkM mice exhibit improved insulin-stimulated
suppression of hepatic glucose production, and lack of CerS1 in skeletal muscle
improves systemic glucose homeostasis via increased release of Fgf21 from
skeletal muscle. In contrast, muscle-specific deficiency of C16:0
ceramide-producing CerS5 and CerS6 failed to protect mice from obesity-induced
insulin resistance. Collectively, these results reveal the tissue-specific
function of distinct ceramide species during the development of
obesity-associated insulin resistance.
EOF
This study investigated the effects of curcumin and capsaicin on testicular and
hepatic oxidant-antioxidant status in rats with a high fat diet (HFD). Male
Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups (8 rats per group). The control
group was fed a normal control diet (Standard laboratory chow), the HFD group was
fed a HFD (60% of total calories from fat), the HFD+CUR group received a HFD
supplemented with curcumin (1.5 g curcumin/kg HFD), HFD+CAP was given a HFD
supplemented with capsaicin (0.15 g capsaicin/kg HFD), and HFD+CUR+CAP received a
HFD supplemented with curcumin and capsaicin for 16 weeks. Hepatic and testicular
thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), reactive oxygen species (ROS),
glutathione (GSH) levels, glutathione transferase activities and Cu-Zn superoxide
dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase protein expressions and enzyme
activities were detected. The protein expressions were determined by western
blotting. GSH levels and antioxidant enzyme activities were measured with
colorimetric methods. HFD slightly increased hepatic and testicular oxidative
stress parameters. GSH levels did not change between the groups. TBARS and ROS
levels were significantly reduced in HFD+CUR+CAP groups compared to HFD groups.
Liver and testis antioxidant enzyme activities and expressions increased
significantly with combined treatment of capsaicin and curcumin. Curcumin and
capsaicin treatments attenuated testicular and hepatic oxidative stress and
enforced antioxidative defense system. The combination of capsaicin and curcumin 
with HFD seems to offer some remarkable and beneficial effects on testicular
oxidative damage in the fatty liver rat model.
EOF
Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway is implicated in the etiology and progression of 
metabolic disorders. While lines of genetic evidence suggest that blockage of
this pathway yields favorable outcomes in treating such ailments, few inhibitors 
have been used to validate the promising genetic findings. Here, we synthesized
and characterized a novel class of triazole-based Wnt/β-catenin signaling
inhibitors, and assessed their effects on energy metabolism. One of the top
inhibitors, compound 1a, promoted Axin stabilization, which led to the proteasome
degradation of β-catenin and subsequent inhibition of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling
in cells. Treatment of hepatocytes and high fat diet-fed mice with compound 1a
resulted in significantly decreased hepatic lipid accumulation. Moreover,
compound 1a improved glucose tolerance of high fat diet-fed mice without
noticeable toxicity, while downregulating the genes involved in the glucose and
fatty acid anabolism. The new inhibitors are expected to be further developed for
the treatment of metabolic disorders.
EOF
PURPOSE: This experimental study investigated the effects of curcuma
supplementation on weight gain, Body Adiposity Index, glucose and lipid profile, 
and liver and pancreas histology in C57BL/6 mice fed with a high-fat diet.
METHODS: 40 animals were separated into four groups: standard diet (SD), standard
diet plus curcuma (SD + C), high-fat diet (HFD), and high-fat diet plus curcuma
(HFD + C). Curcuma dose was 8 mg/animal/day. Histological and biochemical
analyses were performed at the end of the experimental period.
RESULTS: Curcuma prevented weight gain, despite a higher food intake, and
increased brown adipose tissue weight only in mice receiving standard diet.
However, these changes were not observed in HFD + C group. The groups that
received curcuma (SD + C and HFD + C) showed a pancreas with diffuse macro- and
microgoticular steatosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Curcuma supplementation did not prevent weight gain or improved
glucose and lipid profile in mice receiving high-fat diet. Furthermore, there was
evidence of possible curcuma toxicity in the pancreas of C57BL/6 mice. The
implications of these findings on humans still need to be investigated.
EOF
Obesity is a complex disease, shaped by both genetic and environmental factors
such as diet. In this study, we use untargeted metabolomics and Drosophila
melanogaster to model how diet and genotype shape the metabolome of obese
phenotypes. We used 16 distinct outbred genotypes of Drosophila larvae raised on 
normal (ND) and high-fat (HFD) diets, to produce three distinct phenotypic
classes; genotypes that stored more triglycerides on a ND relative to the HFD,
genotypes that stored more triglycerides on a HFD relative to ND, and genotypes
that showed no change in triglyceride storage on either of the two diets. Using
untargeted metabolomics we characterized 350 metabolites: 270 with definitive
chemical IDs and 80 that were chemically unidentified. Using random forests, we
determined metabolites that were important in discriminating between the HFD and 
ND larvae as well as between the triglyceride phenotypic classes. We found that
flies fed on a HFD showed evidence of an increased use of omega fatty acid
oxidation pathway, an alternative to the more commonly used beta fatty acid
oxidation pathway. Additionally, we observed no correlation between the
triglyceride storage phenotype and free fatty acid levels (laurate, caprate,
caprylate, caproate), indicating that the distinct metabolic profile of fatty
acids in high-fat diet fed Drosophila larvae does not propagate into triglyceride
storage differences. However, dipeptides did show moderate differences between
the phenotypic classes. We fit Gaussian graphical models (GGMs) of the metabolic 
profiles for HFD and ND flies to characterize changes in metabolic network
structure between the two diets, finding the HFD to have a greater number of
edges indicating that metabolome varies more across samples on a HFD. Taken
together, these results show that, in the context of obesity, metabolomic
profiles under distinct dietary conditions may not be reliable predictors of
phenotypic outcomes in a genetically diverse population.
EOF
Despite the requirement for effective medication against neuropathic pain
associated with type 2 diabetes-mellitus (T2DM), mechanism-based pharmacotherapy 
has yet to be established. Given that long-lasting neuroinflammation, driven by
inflammatory macrophages in the peripheral nerves, plays a pivotal role in
intractable pain, it is important to determine whether inflammatory macrophages
contribute to neuropathic pain associated with T2DM. To generate an experimental 
model of T2DM, C57BL/6J mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) ad libitum. Compared 
to control diet-feeding, obesity and hyperglycemia were observed after
HFD-feeding, and the mechanical pain threshold evaluated using the von Frey test 
was found to be decreased, indicating the development of mechanical allodynia.
The expression of mRNA markers for macrophages, inflammatory cytokines, and
chemokines were significantly upregulated in the sciatic nerve (SCN) following
HFD-feeding. Perineural (p.n.) administration of saporin-conjugated anti-Mac1
antibody (Mac1-Sap) improved HFD-induced mechanical allodynia. Moreover,
treatment of Mac1-Sap decreased the accumulation of F4/80+ macrophages and the
upregulation of inflammatory mediators in the SCN after HFD-feeding. Inoculation 
of lipopolysaccharide-activated peritoneal macrophages in tissue surrounding the 
SCN elicited mechanical allodynia. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of
inflammatory macrophages by either p.n. or systemic administration of TC-2559, a 
α4β2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor selective agonist, relieved HFD-induced
mechanical allodynia. Taken together, inflammatory macrophages accumulated in the
SCN mediate the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain associated with T2DM.
Inhibitory agents for macrophage-driven neuroinflammation could be potential
candidates for novel pharmacotherapy against intractable neuropathic pain.
EOF
The sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) pump is a major contributor 
to skeletal muscle Ca2+ homeostasis and metabolic rate. SERCA activity can become
adaptively uncoupled by its regulator sarcolipin (SLN) to increase the energy
demand of Ca2+ pumping, preventing excessive obesity and glucose intolerance in
mice. Several other SERCA regulators bear structural and functional resemblance
to SLN, including phospholamban (PLN). Here, we sought to examine whether
endogenous levels of skeletal muscle PLN control SERCA Ca2+ pumping efficiency
and whole-body metabolism. Using PLN-null mice (Pln-/-), we found that soleus
(SOL) muscle SERCA pumping efficiency (measured as an apparent coupling ratio:
Ca2+ uptake/ATP hydrolysis) was unaffected by PLN. Expression of Ca2+-handling
proteins within the SOL, including SLN, were comparable between Pln-/- and
wild-type (WT) littermates, as were fiber-type characteristics. Not surprisingly 
then, Pln-/- mice developed a similar degree of diet-induced obesity and glucose 
intolerance as WT controls when given a "Westernized" high-fat diet. Lack of an
obesogenic phenotype of Pln-/- could not be explained by compensation from
skeletal muscle SLN or brown adipose tissue uncoupling protein-1 content. In
agreement with several other reports, our study lends support to the notion that 
PLN serves a functionally distinct role from that of SLN in skeletal muscle
physiology.
EOF
Oxidative stress-induced vascular endothelial cell (VEC) injury is a major
mechanism in the initiation and development of atherosclerosis. Lunasin, a
soybean-derived 43-aa peptide, has been previously shown to possess potent
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities other than its established
anticancer activities. This study investigated the effects of lunasin on
protecting VECs from oxidative damage and inhibiting atherosclerotic plaque
progression in apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice and explored its
underlying mechanism. Biochemical and histologic analyses were performed by using
EA.hy926 human VECs and a high-fat diet (HFD) ApoE-/- mouse atherosclerosis
model. Our data indicated that lunasin attenuated H2O2-induced,
mitochondria-dependent endothelial apoptosis via down-regulating Bax and
up-regulating Bcl-2, inhibiting the mitochondrial depolarization, and reducing
the release of cytochrome c, as well as decreasing the activation of caspase-9
and caspase-3 in vitro and in vivo. Mechanic studies showed that lunasin
significantly up-regulated heme oxygenase-1 via the PI3K/Akt/nuclear factor
erythroid 2-related factor 2/antioxidant response element pathway, and reduced
H2O2-induced ROS production in VECs, thereby attenuating oxidant-induced
endothelial injury and inhibiting atherosclerotic plaque progression in ApoE-/-
mice. In conclusion, our in vitro and in vivo data suggest that lunasin protects 
VECs from oxidative damage by enhancing heme oxygenase-1 expression via
activation of the PI3K/Akt/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor
2/antioxidant response element pathway and inhibiting mitochondria-dependent
apoptosis, thereby effectively attenuating atherosclerosis in HFD-fed ApoE-/-
mice. Lunasin may act as a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention and
treatment of atherosclerosis.-Gu, L., Ye, P., Li, H., Wang, Y., Xu, Y., Tian, Q.,
Lei, G., Zhao, C., Gao, Z., Zhao, W., Tan, S. Lunasin attenuates oxidant-induced 
endothelial injury and inhibits atherosclerotic plaque progression in ApoE-/-
mice by up-regulating heme oxygenase-1 via PI3K/Akt/Nrf2/ARE pathway.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Coffea arabica pulp (CP) is the first by-product obtained from coffee
berries during coffee processing. The major constituents of CP, including
chlorogenic acid, caffeine, and epicatechin exhibit anti-hyperlipidemic effects
in in vitro and in vivo models. Whether Coffea arabica pulp aqueous extract (CPE)
has a lipid-lowering effect remains unknown.
PURPOSE: This study examined the effect of CPE on cholesterol absorption, and
identified the mechanisms involved in lowered cholesterol in in vitro and in vivo
models.
METHODS: Uptake of [3H]-cholesterol micelles and the mode of CPE inhibition were 
determined using human intestinal Caco-2 cells, and subsequently, confirmed using
isolated rat jejunal loops. In addition, the 12-week high-fat diet-induced
hypercholesterolemic rats (HF) received either CPE (1000  mg/kg BW), a sole and
high dose which was selected because it contained approximately 12  mg of CGA
that was previously shown to have lipid-lowering effects, or ezetimibe (10  mg/kg
BW), a cholesterol inhibitor. The rats were divided into HF, HF  ++ CPE, and HF  
++ ezetimibe groups for the next 12 weeks. Normal rats received a normal diet
(ND) and CPE (ND  +  CPE). Body weights and lipid profiles were evaluated.
Cholesterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1), protein expression and 
liver X receptor alpha (LXRα) mRNA expression were determined. In vitro micellar 
complex properties were also investigated.
RESULTS: CPE inhibited [3H]-cholesterol micelle transport in Caco-2 cells and rat
jejunal loops in a dose-dependent, non-competitive manner partly by decreasing
membrane NPC1L1 expression. Congruently, CPE and its major constituents activated
LXRα which, in turn, down-regulated NPC1L1. Furthermore, CPE interfered with
physicochemical characteristics of cholesterol mixed micelles. These data were
consistent with decreased body weight and slowed body weight gain and improved
lipid profiles by CPE in hypercholesterolemic rats while no change occurred in
these parameters in normal rats. Down-regulated intestinal NPC1L1 expression
mediated by increased LXRα mRNA were also observed in HF  ++ CPE and ND  +  CPE
rats.
CONCLUSION: CPE has a cholesterol-lowering effect in in vitro and in vivo via
inhibition of intestinal cholesterol absorption by down-regulating NPC1L1
mediated LXRα activation and interfering with micellar complex formation.
Accordingly, CPE could be developed as nutraceutical product to prevent
dyslipidemia-induced obesity and insulin resistance.
EOF
The ingestion of tea flavonoids (TF) and fructooligosaccharide (FOS) contributes 
to anti-hyperlipidaemia. In the current study, TF or FOS or TF together with FOS 
were orally administrated to mice fed a high sucrose (HS) diet. UPLC-MS analyses 
showed that FOS significantly increased the concentrations of urine catechin,
epigallocatechin, epicatechin gallate, epigallocatechin gallate and gallocatechin
gallate. The mice fed with HS for continuous 8 weeks exhibited severe
dyslipidemia and abnormal liver fat accumulation. However, oral administration of
FOS or TF or in combination significantly decreased the effects of HS on the
serum total cholesterol, total triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein and
high-density lipoprotein. Co-treatment of FOS and TF more effectively regulated
lipid metabolism by inhibiting lipogenesis. Intake of TF together with FOS
reduced the level of dyslipidemia marker (elaidic acid) by increasing
anti-oxidative activity than treatments of FOS or TP alone in HS-fed mice.
Histological observations of liver confirmed these health benefits.
EOF
CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT II) deficiency
is a disorder of long-chain fatty-acid oxidation. The three clinical
presentations are lethal neonatal form, severe infantile hepatocardiomuscular
form, and myopathic form (which is usually mild and can manifest from infancy to 
adulthood). While the former two are severe multisystemic diseases characterized 
by liver failure with hypoketotic hypoglycemia, cardiomyopathy, seizures, and
early death, the latter is characterized by exercise-induced muscle pain and
weakness, sometimes associated with myoglobinuria. The myopathic form of CPT II
deficiency is the most common disorder of lipid metabolism affecting skeletal
muscle and the most frequent cause of hereditary myoglobinuria. Males are more
likely to be affected than females.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of CPT II deficiency is established in a proband
by the finding of reduced CPT enzyme activity in muscle or the identification of 
biallelic pathogenic variants in CPT2 on molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: High-carbohydrate (70%) and low-fat
(<20%) diet to provide fuel for glycolysis; use of carnitine to convert
potentially toxic long-chain acyl-CoAs to acylcarnitines; avoidance of known
triggers. Prevention of primary manifestations: Infusions of glucose during
intercurrent infections to prevent catabolism; frequent meals; avoiding extended 
fasting and prolonged exercise. Prevention of secondary complications: Providing 
adequate hydration during an attack of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria to
prevent renal failure. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Valproic acid, general
anesthesia, ibuprofen, and diazepam in high doses. Evaluation of relatives at
risk: If the pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected family
member, molecular genetic testing of at-risk relatives can reduce morbidity and
mortality through early diagnosis and treatment; if the pathogenic variants in
the family are not known, screening for alterations in acylcarnitines may be of
use in identifying other affected family members.
GENETIC COUNSELING: CPT II deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive
manner. At conception, each sib of an affected individual has a 25% chance of
being affected, a 50% chance of being a carrier, and a 25% chance of being
unaffected and not a carrier. Heterozygotes (carriers) are usually asymptomatic; 
however, manifesting carriers have been reported. Prenatal diagnosis for
pregnancies at increased risk for one of the severe forms of the disease is
possible either by molecular genetic testing of CPT2, if the two pathogenic
variants in the family are known, or by assay of CPT II enzyme activity.
EOF
Environmental factors such as diet and endocrine-disrupting chemicals have
individually been shown to mediate metabolic function. However, the underlying
mechanism by which the combination disrupts adipocyte morphology and fat storage 
remains unknown. The current study evaluated early-life programming by diet and
phthalate exposure. During gestation and lactation, pregnant Long-Evans hooded
rat dams were fed either a control (C) or high-fat (HF) diet and were orally
administered one of three phthalate dosages (0, 200 or 1000 μg/kg/day), yielding 
six groups of offspring: C-0, C-200, C-1000, HF-0, HF-200 and HF-1000. On
postnatal day (PND) 90, gonadal fat pads were collected and analyzed for
histology, gene expression and DNA methylation. Differences in body weight were
observed only in males. Hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed larger adipocyte 
size in HF-0 vs. C-0 females. Exposure to 200 or 1000 μg/kg/day phthalates
modulated diet-induced changes in adipose morphology. Compared to C-0 females,
HF-0 females also had higher expression of the adipogenesis gene Wnt receptor,
frizzled 1 (Fzd1) and the triglyceride cleaving enzyme lipoprotein lipase (Lpl). 
These increases in gene expression were accompanied by lower DNA methylation
surrounding the transcription start sites of the two genes. Diet-driven effects
were observed in unexposed females but not in phthalate-treated rats. Results
suggest a sex-specific association between perinatal HF diet and body weight,
adipocyte size and DNA methylation. Perinatal phthalate exposure appears to
produce a phenotype that more closely resembles HF-fed animals.
EOF
Dietary phenols are antioxidants with diverse physiological functions that are
beneficial for human health. The objective of this research work was to
investigate antioxidant activity of p-coumaric acid (p-CA) using four in vitro
methods, the protective effects against oxidative stress in PC12 cells, and
hypolipidemic effects on High fat-diet (HFD) mice model. The p-CA exhibited
moderate antioxidant activity in the selected in vitro assay. The highest
chelating activity of p-CA at 50 μg/mL was found to be 52.22%. Pretreatment with 
p-CA significantly enhanced cell viability of PC12 cell and suppressed
AAPH-induced intracellular ROS generation and AAPH-induced LDH release. The
hypolipidemic effects of p-CA (100 mg/kg BW) was directly linked to the increased
expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor (Nrf2) by 2.0-fold,
Glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) by 3.8-fold, Superoxide dismutase (SOD-1) by
1.6-fold, Heme oxygenase (HO-1) by 1.72-fold and NAD(P)H Quinone Dehydrogenase 1 
(NQO-1) by 1.5-fold compared with HFD group. In addition to these effects, p-CA
decreased total cholesterol and atherosclerosis index levels, and increased
catalase (CAT) level in serum, total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) and glutathione
peroxidase (GSH-Px) levels in liver as compared HFD group. Administration of p-CA
also promoted the recovery of hyperlipidemia steatohepatitis in mice by
ameliorating lipid peroxidation. These results suggested that p-CA is a potent
antioxidant with potential therapeutic efficacy for treating hyperlipidemia
symptoms.
EOF
The hypothalamus has emerged as a novel neurogenic niche in the adult brain
during the past decade. However, little is known about its regulation and the
role hypothalamic neurogenesis might play in body weight and appetite control.
High-fat diet (HFD) has been demonstrated to induce an inflammatory response and 
to alter neurogenesis in the hypothalamus and functional outcome measures, e.g.
body weight. Such modulation poses similarities to what is known from adult
hippocampal neurogenesis, which is highly responsive to lifestyle factors, such
as nutrition or physical exercise. With the rising question of a principle of
neurogenic stimulation by lifestyle in the adult brain as a physiological
regulatory mechanism of central and peripheral functions, exercise is
interventionally applied in obesity and metabolic syndrome conditions, promoting 
weight loss and improving glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. To
investigate the potential pro-neurogenic cellular processes underlying such
beneficial peripheral outcomes, we exposed adult female mice to HFD together with
physical exercise and evaluated neurogenesis and inflammatory markers in the
arcuate nucleus (ArcN) of the hypothalamus. We found that HFD increased
neurogenesis, whereas physical exercise stimulated cell proliferation. HFD also
increased the amount of microglia, which was counteracted by physical exercise.
Physiologically, exercise increased food and fat intake but reduced HFD-induced
body weight gain. These findings support the hypothesis that hypothalamic
neurogenesis may represent a counter-regulatory mechanism in response to
environmental or physiological insults to maintain energy balance.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a prevalent and complex disease that
confers a high risk of severe liver disorders. Although such public and clinical 
health importance, very few effective therapies are presently available for
NAFLD. Here, we showed that receptor-interacting kinase-3 (RIP3) was up-regulated
in liver of mouse with hepatic steatosis induced by high fat diet (HFD). After 16
weeks on a HFD, obesity, insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, hepatic
steatosis, inflammatory response and oxidative stress were significantly
alleviated in liver of mice with the loss of RIP3. We provided mechanistic
evidence that RIP3 knockdown attenuated hepatic dyslipidemia through preventing
the expression of lipogenesis-associated genes. Furthermore, in the absence of
RIP3, the transcription factor of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway
activated by HFD was blocked, accompanied with the inhibition of NLRP3
inflammasome. We also found that RIP3 knockdown-induced activation of nuclear
factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2/heme oxygenase-1 (Nrf-2/HO-1) led to the
inhibition of oxidative stress. The detrimental effects of RIP3 on hepatic
steatosis and related pathologies were confirmed in palmitate (PAL)-treated mouse
liver cells. Of note, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- or PAL-activated TLR-4 resulted
in the up-regulation of RIP3 that was accompanied by the elevated inflammation
and lipid deposition, and these effects were reversed in TLR-4 knockdown cells.
Furthermore, promoting Nrf-2 pathway activation effectively reduced reactive
oxygen species (ROS) generation and RIP3 expression in PAL-stimulated cells,
consequently leading to the suppression of cellular inflammation and lipid
accumulation. In contrast, blocking Nrf-2/HO-1 signaling abrogated RIP3
knockdown-reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS), inflammatory response and lipid 
deposition in PAL-stimulated cells. Taken together, the present study helped to
elucidate how HFD-induced hepatic steatosis was regulated by RIP3, via the
TLR-4/NF-κB and Nrf-2/HO-1 signaling pathways.
EOF
GPIHBP1, the protein that shuttles lipoprotein lipase (LPL) to the capillary
lumen, is essential for plasma triglyceride metabolism. When GPIHBP1 is absent,
LPL remains stranded within the interstitial spaces and plasma triglyceride
hydrolysis is impaired, resulting in severe hypertriglyceridemia. While the
functions of GPIHBP1 in intravascular lipolysis are reasonably well understood,
no one has yet identified DNA sequences regulating GPIHBP1 expression. In the
current studies, we identified an enhancer element located ~3.6 kb upstream from 
exon 1 of mouse Gpihbp1 To examine the importance of the enhancer, we used
CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing to create mice lacking the enhancer (Gpihbp1 Enh/Enh).
Removing the enhancer reduced Gpihbp1 expression by >90% in the liver and by ~50%
in heart and brown adipose tissue. The reduced expression of GPIHBP1 was
insufficient to prevent LPL from reaching the capillary lumen, nor did it lead to
hypertriglyceridemia--even when mice were fed a high-fat diet. Compound
heterozygotes (Gpihbp1 Enh/- mice) displayed further reductions in Gpihbp1
expression and exhibited partial mislocalization of LPL (increased amounts of LPL
within the interstitial spaces of the heart), but the plasma triglyceride levels 
were not perturbed. The enhancer element that we identified represents the first 
insight into DNA sequences controlling Gpihbp1 expression.
EOF
Short-term energy deficit strategies are practiced by weight class and physique
athletes, often involving high protein intakes to maximize satiety and maintain
lean mass despite a paucity of research. This study compared the satiating effect
of two protein diets on resistance-trained individuals during short-term energy
deficit. Following ethical approval, 16 participants (age: 28 ± 2 years; height: 
1.72 ± 0.03 m; body-mass: 88.83 ± 5.54 kg; body-fat: 21.85 ± 1.82%) were randomly
assigned to 7-days moderate (PROMOD: 1.8 g·kg-1·d-1) or high protein (PROHIGH:
2.9 g·kg-1·d-1) matched calorie-deficit diets in a cross-over design. Daily
satiety responses were recorded throughout interventions. Pre-post diet, plasma
ghrelin and peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY), and satiety ratings were assessed in
response to a protein-rich meal. Only perceived satisfaction was significantly
greater following PROHIGH (67.29 ± 4.28 v 58.96 ± 4.51 mm, p = 0.04). Perceived
cravings increased following PROMOD only (46.25 ± 4.96 to 57.60 ± 4.41 mm, p =
0.01). Absolute ghrelin concentration significantly reduced post-meal following
PROMOD (972.8 ± 130.4 to 613.6 ± 114.3 pg·mL-1; p = 0.003), remaining lower than 
PROHIGH at 2 h (-0.40 ± 0.06 v -0.26 ± 0.06 pg·mL-1 normalized relative change; p
= 0.015). Absolute PYY concentration increased to a similar extent post-meal
(PROMOD: 84.9 ± 8.9 to 147.1 ± 11.9 pg·mL-1, PROHIGH: 100.6 ± 9.5 to 143.3 ± 12.0
pg·mL-1; p < 0.001), but expressed as relative change difference was
significantly greater for PROMOD at 2 h (+0.39 ± 0.20 pg·mL-1 v -0.28 ± 0.12
pg·mL-1; p = 0.001). Perceived hunger, fullness and satisfaction post-meal were
comparable between diets (p > 0.05). However, desire to eat remained
significantly blunted for PROMOD (p = 0.048). PROHIGH does not confer additional 
satiating benefits in resistance-trained individuals during short-term energy
deficit. Ghrelin and PYY responses to a test-meal support the contention that
satiety was maintained following PROMOD, although athletes experiencing negative 
symptoms (i.e., cravings) may benefit from protein-rich meals as opposed to
over-consumption of protein.
EOF
Background: Studies have shown that dietary source of protein and peptides can
affect energy metabolism and influence obesity-associated diseases. This study
aimed to investigate the impact of different chicken protein hydrolysates (CPHs) 
generated from chicken rest raw materials in a mouse obesity model. Methods: Male
C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat, high-sucrose diet with casein or CPHs generated
using Papain + Bromelain, Alcalase, Corolase PP, or Protamex for 12 weeks (n =
12). Body weight, feed intake, and intraperitoneal glucose tolerance was
determined, and plasma and liver and adipose tissues were collected at sacrifice.
Results: The average feed intake and body weight did not differ between the
groups and white adipose tissue depots were unchanged, except for a reduction in 
the subcutaneous depot in mice fed the Protamex CPH diet. Moreover, the CPH diets
did not prevent increased fasting glucose and insulin levels. Interestingly, the 
hepatic mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation was increased in mice fed Alcalase
and Corolase PP CPHs. All CPH diets reduced plasma interleukine (IL)-1β,
interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor α, and monocyte chemotactic protein 1
compared to control, indicating anti-inflammatory effects. In addition, Corolase 
PP and Protamex CPHs significantly reduced plasma levels of IL-1α, IL-2, IL-6,
IL-10, and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Conclusions: CPH
diets were not able to counteract obesity and glucose intolerance in a mouse
obesity model, but strongly reduced inflammatory parameters associated with
obesity. Alcalase and Corolase PP CPHs also stimulated mitochondrial fatty acid
β-oxidation. The possibility that hydrolysates from chicken rest raw materials
could alleviate obesity-associated metabolic disease should be investigated
further.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: A growing body of evidence suggests that obesity could result from
alterations in reward processing. In rodent models, chronic exposure to an
obesogenic diet leads to blunted dopamine signaling and related incentive
responding. This study aimed to determine which reward-related behavioral
dimensions are actually impacted by obesogenic diet exposure.
METHODS: Mice were chronically exposed to an obesogenic diet. Incentive and
hedonic processes were tested through operant conditioning and licking
microstructures, respectively. In parallel, mesolimbic dopamine transmission was 
assessed using microdialysis.
RESULTS: Prolonged high-fat (HF) diet exposure led to blunted mesolimbic dopamine
release, paralleled by a decrease in operant responding in all schedules tested. 
HF-fed and control animals similarly decreased their operant responding in an
effort-based choice task, and HF-fed animals displayed an overall lower calorie
intake in this task. Analysis of the licking microstructures during consumption
of a freely accessible reward suggested a decrease in basal hunger and a
potentiation of gastrointestinal inhibition in HF-fed animals, without changes in
hedonic reactivity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the decrease in operant responding under 
prolonged HF diet exposure is mainly driven by decrease in hunger as well as
stronger postingestive negative feedback mechanisms, rather than by a decrease in
incentive or hedonic responses.
EOF
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) influences energy balance through nonshivering
thermogenesis, and its metabolism daily and seasonal variations are regulated by 
melatonin through partially known mechanisms. We evaluated the role of melatonin 
in BAT molecular machinery of male Control, pinealectomized (PINX), and
melatonin-treated pinealectomized (PINX/Mel) adult rats. BAT was collected either
every 3 hours over 24 hours or after cold or high-fat diet (HFD) acute exposure. 
HFD PINX animals presented decreased Dio2 expression, while HFD PINX/Mel animals 
showed increased Dio2, Ucp1, and Cidea expression. Cold-exposed PINX rats showed 
decreased Dio2 and Lhs expression, and melatonin treatment augmented Adrβ3, Dio2,
Ucp1, and Cidea expression. Daily profiles analyses showed altered Dio2, Lhs,
Ucp1, Pgc1α, and Cidea gene and UCP1 protein expression in PINX animals, leading 
to altered rhythmicity under sub-thermoneutral conditions, which was partially
restored by melatonin treatment. The same was observed for mitochondrial
complexes I, II, and IV protein expression and enzyme activity. Melatonin absence
seems to impair BAT responses to metabolic challenges, and melatonin replacement 
reverses this effect, with additional increase in the expression of crucial
genes, suggesting that melatonin plays an important role in several key points of
the thermogenic activation pathway, influencing both the rhythmic profile of the 
tissue and its ability to respond to metabolic challenges, which is crucial for
the organism homeostasis.
EOF
Obesity is considered as a chronic disease which seriously affecting people's
health and daily life. Kiwifruit (Actinidia chinensis Planch) seed oil (KSO), as 
a by-product of kiwifruit processing, is rich in fatty acids. Conventional wisdom
holds that KSO has many health benefits, but there is no scientific basis. Here, 
the relieving effects of KSO on obesity and its potential mechanism were
investigated in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced C57BL/6 mice. Mice were divided into 
four groups: ND (normal diet); HFD; L-KSO and H-KSO (HFD supplemented with 1.0
and 3.0 mL/kg·bw of KSO per day, respectively). Results showed that continuous
supplementation KSO for 12 weeks significantly decreased bodyweight, inguinal fat
tissue weight, blood glucose, and HOMA-IR index and ameliorated serum lipids
accumulation (TC, TG, HDL-C, and LDL-C). Relative mRNA expression of inflammatory
cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, COX-2, and iNOS) was down-regulated and expression
of thermogenesis-related genes (PPAR-γ, UCP1, PGC1-α, and PRDM16) was
up-regulated in the inguinal fat tissue of KSO treated mice. Principal component 
analysis showed that the microbial community compositions of four groups were
different. KSO supplementation dramatically decreased the
Firmicutes-to-Bacteroidetes ratio. Together, our findings demonstrated that
long-term supplementation KSO ameliorates obesity by reducing inflammation,
adipose thermogenesis and gut microbiota dysbiosis.
EOF
Maternal high-fat diet (HFD) during pregnancy is linked to cardiovascular
diseases in postnatal life. The current study tested the hypothesis that maternal
HFD causes myocardial changes through angiotensin II receptor (AGTR) expression
modulation in fetal and neonatal rat hearts. The control group of pregnant rats
were fed a normal diet and the treatment group of pregnant rats was on a HFD (60%
kcal fat). Hearts were isolated from embryonic day 21 fetuses (E21) and postnatal
day 7 pups (PD7). Maternal HFD decreased the body weight of the offspring in both
E21 and PD7. The ratio of heart weight to body weight was increased in E21, but
not PD7, when compared to the control group. Transmission electron microscopy
revealed disorganized myofibrils and effacement of mitochondria cristae in the
treatment group. Maternal HFD decreased S-phase and increased G1-phase of the
cellular cycle for fetal and neonatal cardiac cells. Molecular markers of cardiac
hypertrophy such as Nppa and Myh7, were found to be increased in the treatment
group. There was an associated increase in Agtr2 mRNA and protein, whereas Agtr1a
mRNA and AGTR1 protein were decreased in HFD fetal and neonatal hearts.
Furthermore, maternal HFD decreased glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) binding to
glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) at the Agtr1a and Agtr2 promoter, which
correlated with downregulation of GR in fetal and neonatal hearts. These findings
suggest that maternal HFD may promote premature termination of fetal and neonatal
cardiomyocyte proliferation and compensatory hypertrophy through intrauterine
modulation of AGTR1 and AGTR2 expression via GR dependent mechanism.
EOF
Background: Air pollution exposures are novel contributors to the growing
childhood obesity epidemic. One possible mechanism linking air pollution
exposures and obesity is through changes in food consumption patterns.
Objective: The aim of this study was to examine the longitudinal association
between childhood exposure to air pollutants and changes in diet among
adolescents.
Design: School-age children were enrolled in the Southern California Children's
Health Study during 1993-1994 (n = 3100) and were followed for 4-8 y.
Community-level regional air pollutants [e.g., nitrogen dioxide (NO2), elemental 
carbon (EC), and fine particles with aerodynamic diameter <2.5 µm (PM2.5)] were
measured at central monitoring stations. Line dispersion modeling was used to
estimate concentrations of traffic-related air pollutants based on nitrogen
oxides (NOx) at participants' residential addresses. In addition, self-reported
diet information was collected annually using a structured youth/adolescent
food-frequency questionnaire during 1997-2001. Generalized linear mixed-effects
models were used in the association analyses.
Results: Higher exposures to regional and traffic-related air pollutants were
associated with intake of a high-trans-fat diet, after adjusting for confounders 
including socioeconomic status and access to fast food in the community. A 2-SD
(12.2 parts per billion) increase in regional NO2 exposure was associated with a 
34% increased risk of consuming a high-trans-fat diet compared with a
low-trans-fat diet (OR: 1.34; 95% CI: 1.05, 1.72). In addition, higher exposures 
to acid vapor, EC, PM2.5, and non-freeway NOx were all associated with higher
consumption of dietary trans fat (all P < 0.04). Notably, higher exposures to
regional NO2, acid vapor, and EC were also associated with a higher consumption
of fast food (all P < 0.05).
Conclusions: Childhood exposures to regional and traffic-related air pollutants
were associated with increased consumption by adolescents of trans fat and fast
foods. Our results indicate that air pollution exposures may contribute to
obesogenic behaviors. This study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as
NCT03379298.
EOF
Recently, modulation of gut microbiota by probiotics treatment has been emerged
as a promising strategy for treatment of metabolic disorders. Apart from lactic
acid bacteria, Bacillus species (Bacillus spp.) have also been paid attention as 
potential probiotics, but nevertheless, the molecular mechanisms for their
protective effect against metabolic dysfunction remain to be elucidated. In this 
study, we demonstrate that a probiotic mixture composed of 5 different Bacillus
spp. protects mice from high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity, insulin resistance
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Probiotic Bacillus treatment
substantially attenuated body weight gain and enhanced glucose tolerance by
sensitizing insulin action in skeletal muscle and epididymal adipose tissue (EAT)
of HFD-fed mice. Bacillus-treated HFD-fed mice also exhibited significantly
suppressed chronic inflammation in the liver, EAT and skeletal muscle, which was 
observed to be associated with reduced HFD-induced intestinal permeability and
enhanced adiponectin production. Additionally, Bacillus treatment significantly
reversed HFD-induced hepatic steatosis. In Bacillus-treated mice, hepatic
expression of lipid oxidative genes was significantly increased, and lipid
accumulation in subcutaneous and mesenteric adipose tissues were significantly
decreased, commensurate with down-regulated expression of genes involved in lipid
uptake and lipogenesis. Although, in Bacillus-treated mice, significant
alterations in gut microbiota composition was not observed, the enhanced
expression of tight junction-associated proteins showed a possibility of
improving gut barrier function by Bacillus treatment. Our findings provide
possible explanations how Bacillus probiotics protect diet-induced obese mice
against metabolic disorders, identifying the treatment of probiotic Bacillus as a
potential therapeutic approach.
EOF
INTRODUCTION AND AIM: Patients with NASH have increased risk for sepsis or
cardiovascular disease after Liver transplantation. An important role of
Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH) was demonstrated. Here, we study the role of miR-182-5p in TLR4 expression
and high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced NASH in vitro and in vivo.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Following transfection with a miR-182-5p mimic, the effect 
of miR-182-5p on TLR4 in RAW264.7 and HepG2 cells was investigated. Following
administration of the miR-182-5p mimic into the livers of HFD-induced NASH mice, 
we determined the in vivo expression of TLR4, TNFα, and IL-6 and assessed the
histologic features of the livers.
RESULTS: Following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment of RAW264.7 cells,
real-time RT-PCR and western blot results indicated decreases levels of TLR4 mRNA
and protein in the miR-182-5p group as compared with levels observed in controls,
with similar trends were observed in TNFα and IL-6 protein levels. Following
oleic acid (OA) treatment of HepG2 cells, TLR4, TNFα, and IL-6 levels were
significantly decreased in the miR-182-5p group as compared with levels observed 
in controls. Following miR-182-5p administration, TLR4 mRNA and protein levels
decreased along with those of TNFα and IL-6 proteins, and the liver weight/body
weight ratio of treated mice was less than that observed in controls.
Furthermore, hematoxylin and eosin staining showed that the miR-182-5p-treated
group exhibited low adiposecell cross-sectional areas, and Oil Red O staining
showed decreases in the size of lipid droplets in the miR-182-5p-treated group.
CONCLUSIONS: miR-182-5p ameliorated HFD-induced NASH by suppressing TLR4.
EOF
Given the growing evidence that gut dysfunction, including changes in gut
microbiota composition, plays a critical role in the development of inflammation 
and metabolic diseases, the identification of novel probiotic bacteria with
immunometabolic properties has recently attracted more attention. Herein,
bacterial strains were first isolated from dairy products and human feces and
then screened in vitro for their immunomodulatory activity. Five selected strains
were further analyzed in vivo, using a mouse model of diet-induced obesity.
C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat high-sucrose diet, in combination with 1 of 3
Lactobacillus strains (Lb38, L. plantarum; L79, L. paracasei/casei; Lb102, L.
rhamnosus) or Bifidobacterium strains (Bf26, Bf141, 2 different strains of B.
animalis ssp. lactis species) administered for 8 wk at 109 colony-forming
units/d. Whereas 3 strains showed only modest (Lb38, Bf26) or no (L79) effects,
Lb102 and Bf141 reduced diet-induced obesity, visceral fat accretion, and
inflammation, concomitant with improvement of glucose tolerance and insulin
sensitivity. Further analysis revealed that Lb102 and Bf141 enhanced intestinal
integrity markers in association with selective changes in gut microbiota
composition. We have thus identified 2 new potential probiotic bacterial strains 
with immunometabolic properties to alleviate obesity development and associated
metabolic disturbances.-Le Barz, M., Daniel, N., Varin, T. V., Naimi, S.,
Demers-Mathieu, V., Pilon, G., Audy, J., Laurin, E., Roy, D., Urdaci, M. C.,
St-Gelais, D., Fliss, I, Marette, A. In vivo screening of multiple bacterial
strains identifies Lactobacillus rhamnosus Lb102 and Bifidobacterium animalis
ssp. lactis Bf141 as probiotics that improve metabolic disorders in a mouse model
of obesity.
EOF
The incidence of overweight and obesity has become a global public health
problem, constituting a major risk factor for numerous comorbidities. Despite
tremendous efforts, effective pharmacological agents for the treatment of obesity
are still limited. Here, we showed that in contrast to lactate receptor GPR81,
niacin receptor GPR109A-deficient mice had progressive weight gain and hepatic
fat accumulation. Using high-fat diet-induced mouse model of obesity, we
demonstrated that niacin treatment apparently protected against obesity without
affecting food intake in wild-type mice but not in GPR109A-deficient mice.
Further investigation showed that niacin treatment led to a remarkable inhibition
of hepatic de novo lipogenesis. Additionally, we demonstrated that niacin
treatment triggered brown adipose tissue and/or white adipose tissue thermogenic 
activity via activation of GPR109A. Moreover, we observed that mice exposed to
niacin exhibited a dramatic decrease in intestinal absorption of sterols and
fatty acids. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that acting on GPR109A,
niacin shows the potential to maintain energy homeostasis through multipathways, 
representing a potential approach to the treatment of obesity, diabetes and
cardiovascular disease.-Ye, L., Cao, Z., Lai, X., Wang, W., Guo, Z., Yan, L.,
Wang, Y., Shi, Y., Zhou, N. Niacin fine-tunes energy homeostasis through
canonical GPR109A signaling.
EOF
Obesity has adverse effects on male fertility and usually is diagnosed with a
prevalence of vitamin D deficiency (VD-). Discussion on the impact of obesity/VD-
on sperm function has been limited. This study analyzed the effects of
diet-induced obesity/VD- on viability and plasma membrane integrity (PMI),
superoxide anion (O2 -) level, and DNA fragmentation (DNAfrag) in sperm
Sprague-Dawley rats. The males were randomized into four groups and fed for a
period of 12 weeks: G1: control diet with vitamin D (C/VD+), G2: control diet
without vitamin D (C/VD-), G3: high-fat diet with vitamin D (HF/VD+), and G4:
high-fat diet without vitamin D (HF/VD-). Sperm function parameters were analyzed
by flow cytometry. PMI percentages and O2 - levels were not affected by any of
the diets. DNA fragmentation was increasing significantly (p<0.05) in the
spermatozoa of animals with diets vitamin D deficient (G2) and diet-induced
obesity (G4). Our results allow us to point out that diet-induced obesity and VD-
produce greater damage in DNA sperm of rats. The use of nutraceuticals containing
vitamin D could be reducing the risk of fragmentation of DNA in spermatozoa.
EOF
The present work was performed to evaluate the effect of acidic-extractable
polysaccharides (AE-PS) from fruit bodies of Cordyceps militaris on type 2
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and its structural characteristics. The T2DM mice
induced by high-fat diet (HFD) and streptozotocin (STZ) were administered with
100 and 400 mg/kg AE-PS for 4 weeks. Our work proved that AE-PS decreased the
levels of serum lipid, lipid peroxidation, and blood glucose; improved glucose
and insulin resistance; enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities; and attenuated
the injuries of the liver, kidney, and pancreas in T2DM mice. These results might
offer references for the exploitation of AE-PS as functional foods or natural
drug source for preventing and treating HFD- and STZ-induced T2DM. Moreover, gas 
chromatography (GC) results revealed that AE-PS was heterogeneous and composed of
fucose, ribose, arabinose, xylose, mannose, galactose, and glucose with mass
percentages of 1.23%, 0.57%, 0.29%, 2.12%, 2.73%, 4.66%, and 88.4%, respectively.
Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis
indicated that AE-PS was a pyran-type polysaccharide with α- and
β-configurations.
EOF
Background: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of weight loss
with hypocaloric diet and orlistat treatment in addition to hypocaloric diet on
gut-derived hormones ghrelin and obestatin.
Materials and Methods: A total of 52, euglycemic and euthyroid, obese female
patients were involved in the study. The patients were assigned to two groups:
Group 1 (n = 26) received hypocaloric diet alone and Group 2 (n = 26) received
orlistat in addition to hypocaloric diet for 12 weeks. Anthropometric
measurements, serum lipid, insulin levels, and obestatin and ghrelin values were 
assessed at the beginning of the study and after 12 weeks of therapy.
Results: Baseline clinical characteristics and laboratory parameters including
serum ghrelin and obestatin concentrations and ghrelin/obestatin ratio were
similar between the two groups. After 12 weeks, mean change in BMI, fat mass, and
fat-free mass (FFM) were -1.97 ± 1.56 kg/m2 (P = 0.003), -2.63% ±2.11% (P =
0.003), and -1.06 ± 0.82 kg (P = 0.003), respectively, in Group 1. In Group 2,
mean change in BMI was -2.11 ± 1.24 kg/m2 (P = 0.001), fat mass was -3.09% ±2.28%
(P = 0.002), and FFM was -1.26 ± 0.54 kg (P = 0.001). However, fasting glucose,
lipid, and insulin levels did not change in Group 1. Furthermore, except serum
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels, no significant
change was observed in Group 2. Although serum ghrelin and obestatin
concentrations increased significantly in both groups (Group 1: pGhrelin: 0.047, 
pobestatin: 0.001 and Group 2: pGhrelin: 0.028, pobestatin: 0.006),
ghrelin/obestatin ratio did not change significantly. When the changes in
anthropometric assessments and laboratory parameters were compared, no
significant difference was observed between the two groups. Furthermore, no
correlation was observed between ghrelin or obestatin and any other hormonal and 
metabolic parameters.
Conclusion: Weight loss with diet and diet plus orlistat is both associated with 
increased ghrelin and obestatin concentrations.
EOF
Mammary gland utilization of AA and other metabolites in response to supplemental
energy from protein (PT) and supplemental energy from fat (FT) was tested in a 2 
× 2 factorial arrangement using a randomized complete block design. Fifty-six
Holstein-Friesian dairy cows were adapted during a 28-d control period to a basal
total mixed ration consisting of 34% grass silage, 33% corn silage, 5% grass hay,
and 28% concentrate on a dry matter (DM) basis. Experimental rations were fed for
28 d immediately following the control period and consisted of (1) low protein,
low fat (LP/LF), (2) high protein, low fat (HP/LF), (3) low protein, high fat
(LP/HF), and (4) high protein, high fat (HP/HF). To obtain the high-protein (HP) 
and high-fat (HF) diets, intake of the basal ration was restricted and
supplemented isoenergetically [net energy (MJ/d) basis] with 2.0 kg/d
rumen-protected protein (soybean + rapeseed, 50:50 mixture on a DM basis) and
0.68 kg/d hydrogenated palm fatty acids on a DM basis. Arterial and venous blood 
samples were collected on d 28 of both periods. Isoenergetic supplements (MJ/d)
of protein and fat independently and additively increased milk yield, PT
increased protein yield, and FT increased fat yield. A PT × FT interaction
affected arterial concentration of all essential AA (EAA) groups, where they
increased in response to PT by a greater magnitude at the LF level (on average
35%) compared with the HF level (on average 14%). Mammary gland plasma flow was
unaffected by PT or FT. Supplementation with PT tended to decrease mammary
clearance of total EAA and decreased group 1 AA clearance by 19%. In response to 
PT, mammary uptake of total EAA and group 2 AA increased 12 and 14%,
respectively, with significantly higher uptake of Arg, Ile, and Leu. Energy from 
fat had no effect on mammary clearance or uptake of any AA group. The mammary
gland uptake:milk protein output ratio was not affected by FT, whereas PT
increased this ratio for EAA and group 2 AA. Arterial plasma insulin
concentration decreased in response to FT, in particular on the HP/HF diet, as
indicated by a PT × FT interaction. Arterial concentrations of nonesterified
fatty acids, triacylglycerol, and long-chain fatty acids increased in response to
FT, and concentrations of β-hydroxybutyrate and acetate decreased in response to 
FT only at the HP level. Mammary clearance and uptake of triacylglycerol and
long-chain fatty acids increased in response to FT. Energy from PT and FT
increased lactose yield despite no change in arterial glucose concentration or
mammary glucose uptake. Mammary-sequestered glucose with PT or FT was used in the
same amount for lactose synthesis, and a positive net mammary glucose balance was
found across all treatments. Results presented here illustrate metabolic
flexibility of the mammary gland in its use of aminogenic versus lipogenic
substrates for milk synthesis.
EOF
High fat diets are commonly used in aquaculture to reduce feed cost in Nile
tilapia, but impair its lipid homeostasis. This study evaluated the role of
forskolin on reducing fat accumulation in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) by
using in vitro and in vivo experiments. The use of 50 μM forskolin in vitro
increased free fatty acid and glycerol release, but decreased triglyceride in
adipocytes and hepatocytes. The adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), protein
kinase cAMP-dependent type I regulatory subunit alpha (PKAR I) and other genes
related to β-oxidation (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha, PPARα
and carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1, CPT1) were significantly up-regulated.
After feeding a high-fat diet for six weeks, O. niloticus were fed with 0
(control), 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg forskolin for two weeks to determine whether
forskolin could reduce fat accumulation in vivo. Fish fed the two levels of
forskolin decreased significantly the hepatosomatic and mesenteric fat indices.
The total lipid in the whole fish and liver together with the serum glycerol
content were lower in fish fed on forskolin than in the control. The fish fed on 
forskolin diets exhibited smaller areas of lipid droplets in adipose and liver
tissues. Lipolysis related genes (ATGL, hormone-sensitive lipase, HSL;
monoacylglycerol lipase, MGL; and protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic
subunit, PKAC) and β-oxidation genes (PPARα; fatty acid binding protein 1, FABP1;
and CPT1) in the adipose were up-regulated. Similarly, in the liver lipolysis
genes such as ATGL and PKAR I and β-oxidation genes (PPARα, FABP1, CPT1 and
acyl-CoA oxidase, ACO) showed an increasing trend with the increase of forskolin 
doses. This study indicates that forskolin can reduce fat accumulation in the
adipose and liver by stimulating lipolysis and β-oxidation in O. niloticus.
EOF
Topiramate is an anticonvulsant drug also prescribed for migraine prophylaxis
that acts through several mechanisms of action. Several studies indicate that
topiramate induces weight loss and a moderate reduction of plasma lipids and
glucose. Based on these favourable metabolic effects, aim of this study was to
evaluate if topiramate could modulate atherosclerosis development and protect
target organs of dysmetabolic conditions. Thirty apoE-deficient mice were divided
into three groups and fed for 12 weeks a high fat diet (Control) or the same diet
containing topiramate at 0.125% and 0.250%. Body weight, water and food intake
were monitored throughout the study. Plasma lipids and glucose levels were
measured and a glucose tolerance test was performed. Atherosclerosis development 
was evaluated in the whole aorta and at the aortic sinus. Histological analysis
of liver, kidney and adipose tissue was performed. Topiramate did not affect
weight gain and food intake. Glucose tolerance and plasma lipids were not changed
and, in turn, atherosclerosis development was not different among groups.
Topiramate did not modify liver and adipose tissue histology. Conversely, in the 
kidneys, the treatment reduced the occurrence of glomerular lipidosis by
decreasing foam cells accumulation and reducing the expression of inflammatory
markers. Blood urea nitrogen levels were also reduced by treatment. Our results
indicate that topiramate does not affect atherosclerosis development, but
preserves kidney structure and function. The study suggests that topiramate could
be investigated in drug repurposing studies for the treatment of glomerular
lipidosis.
EOF
Adults in Samoa have the third highest obesity prevalence  in the world, and the 
prevalence is higher in women than men. The nutritional status of a household in 
most low- and middle-income countries is positively influenced by the level of
control women have over financial resources. Our analysis examined how
consumption of specific dietary groups was associated with different
sociodemographic and individual health risk factor groups for women who
participated in the 2014 Samoa Demographic and Health Survey. Our research
question was explored through multivariate analysis of the 2014 Samoa Demographic
and Health Survey dataset. The sociodemographic and health behaviour groups
included in our analysis were: urban vs. rural residence, wealth quintile,
education level, participation in physical activity program, lives with
husband/partner, household size, parity, age, smoking, and alcohol consumption.
The following diet variables were included: fruit, vegetables, seafood, high-fat 
food, sugary drinks, high-salt food, and high-sugar food consumption. There was a
high prevalence of unhealthy food consumption and unhealthy dietary patterns
among a) a large proportion of the population, and b) across sociodemographic and
health behaviour groups, with a higher prevalence of particular at-risk patterns 
in some specific groups including women of younger age and women of higher
wealth. Our analysis highlighted some specific opportunities for policy action,
including the need to create an enabling environment for healthier food
consumption for Samoan women.
EOF
Obesity is associated with chronic low-grade inflammation of the adipose tissue
(AT) that might develop into systemic inflammation, insulin resistance (IR) and
an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in severe obese rodents and 
humans. In the lean state, small normal adipocytes and AT macrophages interact
with each other to maintain metabolic homeostasis but during obesity, enlarged
adipocytes secrete inflammatory mediators and express immune receptors to recruit
immune cells and aggravate the inflammation. The better understanding of the
obesity-related inflammatory milieu and the sequential events leading to IR could
be helpful in designing new preventive and therapeutic strategies. The present
review will discuss the cellular and molecular abnormalities participating in the
pathogenesis of obesity in obese individuals as well as high-fat diet (HFD)-fed
mice, a mouse model of obesity.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To study the effects of IL-17 antibody on adipose tissue inflammation 
and macrophage accumulation in obese mice induced by BPA.
METHODS: 4-week-old male C57 BL/6 mice were fed with high fat diet( HFD) and were
randomly divided into solvent control group, IgG treatment group, IL-17 antibody 
treatment group, 1000 nmol/L BPA group, IgG + 1000 nmol/L BPA group, IL-17
antibody + 1000 nmol/L BPA group, with 8 mice in each group. The BPA exposed
group administered 1000 nmol/L BPA by drinking water. The mice in IL-17 treatment
group were intraperitoneally injected with 100 μg IL-17 antibody and the mice in 
IgG treatment group were intraperitoneally injected with 100 μg IgG each week.
Mice were sacrificed and epididymal fat pad was obtained after 16 weeks.
Histopathological section was used to observe the cells morphological changes and
inflammation in epididymal adipose tissue. Immunohistochemistry( IHC) was used to
detect the expression of IL-17、TNF-α and IL-1β in epididymal adipose tissue.
Immunofluorescence( IF) was used to detect the location of macrophage in the
epididymal adipose tissue. One-Way ANOVA was used to compare the mean values of
the two groups, and the Tukey method was used for pairwise comparison.
RESULTS: The obesity rate [( 40. 68 ± 9. 43) %]and body weight [( 41. 95 ±2. 81) 
g]of mice in 1000 nmol/L BPA group higher than the mice in solvent control group(
body weight [( 38. 44 ± 4. 23) g], the obesity rate [( 28. 90 ± 14. 19) % ]), the
difference was statistically significant( body weight F = 5. 895, P < 0. 05, the 
obesity rate F = 5. 895, P < 0. 05). Epididymal adipose tissue inflammatory cell 
infiltration increased. The expression of IL-17( F = 28. 225, P < 0. 05) and
IL-1β( F = 57. 878, P < 0. 05) were upregulated. And the macrophage accumulation 
was increased( F = 90. 829, P < 0. 05). Compared with the 1000 nmol/L BPA group, 
IgG treatment groups( the obesity rate[( 35. 98 ± 10. 73) % ]) had less effect on
the mice. IL-17 treatment( the obesity rate[( 23. 03 ± 12. 50) % ]) inhibited
BPA-induced increased in obesity rate of mice. Also, the inflammatory
infiltration and macrophage accumulation of the adipose tissue were reduced( F = 
90. 829, P < 0. 05). And the expression of IL-17( F = 28. 225, P < 0. 05), TNF-α(
F = 4. 199, P < 0. 05) and IL-1β( F = 57. 878, P < 0. 05) inflammatory factors
were decreased.
CONCLUSION: IL-17 antibody can improve BPA-induced mice obesity by reducing
adipose tissue macrophage accumulation and reducing adipose tissue inflammation.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: This experiment was to investigate the effect of aerobic exercise on
oxidative stress response and expression of peroxisome proliferator activated
receport α( PPARα) in cardiovascular of metabolic syndrome( MS) rat.
METHODS: 49 4-week male rats were randomly assigned to two groups: control group(
C) with 6 rats with normal diet and MS model group with 43 rats with high fat
diet. After 18 weeks, assigned the successful MS modeling high fat diet rats to
model control group( MC) with 8 rats and model exercise group( ME) with 8 rats.
The ME rats exerted aerobic treadmill exercise 12 weeks. Concurrent execution all
rats to test the oxidative stress factors in serum including monocyte
chemoattractant protein 1( MCP-1), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1( PAI-1),
oxidized low density lipoprotein( ox-LDL), endothelial nitric oxide synthase( e
NOS) andPPARα mRNA expression and protein content in myocardium.
RESULTS: Compared to C group, MC group rats PAI-1, ox-LDL, e NOS showed increased
in serum( P < 0. 05 or P < 0. 01) and PPARα mRNA expression and the protein
content decreased significantly( P < 0. 01, P < 0. 05) in myocardium. Compare to 
MC group, ME group rats MCP-1, PAI-1 showed decreased with statistically
significant( P < 0. 05, P < 0. 01) and ox-LDL decreased but without statistical
difference in serum and e NOS increased without statistically significant, PPARα 
mRNA expression increased( P < 0. 05) with the protein content increased with
statistically significants( P < 0. 01) in myocardium.
CONCLUSION: Oxidative stress increased in MS rats, aerobic exercise could
decrease the oxidative stress to reducing the damage of oxidative stress in
cardiovascular. The possible mechanism of exercise anti-oxidation stress was the 
changed PPARα transcription and translation by exercise mediated oxidation stress
response in cardiovascular.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To understand the food intake and analyze the dietary pattern and its 
change among urban and rural residents in Sichuan from 2002 to 2012.
METHODS: Based on the results data from on the " 2002 National Nutrition and
Health Surveillance Survey" and " 2010-2012 National Nutrition and Health
Surveillancey", data of average food intake per reference man per day in Sichuan 
was compared. The 3-consecutive day-24-hour dietary recall was used to collect
information on food intake, but the condiment intake was collected by weighting
method.
RESULTS: From 2002 to 2012, the average food intake of soybeans and nuts,
vegetables, eggs, meats and oil showed a upward trend. During 2002-2012, the
intake of soybeans and nuts increased during 2002-2012 from7. 00 g to 9. 46 g,
vegetables intake increased from 259. 90 g to 265. 34 g, eggs intake increased
from 15. 30 g to 17. 26 g, but soybeans and nuts, vegetables, eggs were still
insufficient. The intake of meats and edible oil were still much higher than
recommended, the intake of meats increased from 91. 60 g to 137. 21 g during
2002-2012, the intake of edible oil increased from 41. 20 g to 48. 34 g during
ten years. The average food intake of cereals and potatoes, fruits, milk aquatic 
products and salt showed a downward trend. For example, the average intake of
cereals and potatoes decreased during 2002-2012 from426. 60 g to 256. 26 g,
fruits intake decreased from 37. 60 g to 16. 88 g, milk intake decreased from 37.
60 g to 30. 04 g, aquatic products intake decreased from 9. 10 g to 7. 45 g, salt
intake decreased from 10. 00 g to 7. 84 g. But the average intake of salt was
still high. The intake of fat also showed a upward trend that it increases during
2002-2012 from77. 20 g to 95. 87 g, and the proportion of the energy supplied by 
fat( 44. 87%) was too high.
CONCLUSION: The dietary status of urban and rural residents in Sichuan have
gradually improved, but the dietary pattern is unbalanced. The residents' intakes
of milk, fruits, soybeans and nuts, aquatic products are still at a low level and
the intakes of meats, oil and fat are excessive. The proportion of the energy
supplied by fat is too high.
EOF
Evaluation of the actual nutrition of the population of individual regions allows
the development of targeted practical measures to improve nutrition, the
structure of food consumption and appropriate recommendations to ensure optimal
development and health status of a person. In order to study the nutrition of the
adult population of the Republic of Buryatia, a retrospective analysis of the
feeding structure data was conducted according to the data of the territorial
department of the Federal State Statistics Service for the Republic of Buryatia, 
and the results obtained in the course of the questionnaire survey of 426 people 
(chosen by selective method with observance of representativeness) were analyzed.
The data are presented obtained on the results of comparison with physiological
needs in energy and nutrients for men and women in the most employable age of
30-39 years, having the third group of labor intensity. The structure of the food
indicates its irrationality, which was confirmed by an increase in the
consumption of food products with high content of saturated fats and added
sugars, a decrease in the consumption of biologically valuable food products with
high food density. In the product mix of the adult population of the republic,
both among men and women, there was a lack of consumption of products from
aquatic bioresources, vegetables, dairy products and eggs. At the same time, the 
consumption of bakery, flour-grinding products and potatoes in aggregate amounted
to 120% of the recommended level. According to the results of the observation,
91.6% of the interviewed did not take into account the distribution of caloric
intake by meals, in 50.8% the highest calorie intake was for dinner. Actual
nutrition included elements that are risk factors for the development of
endocrine pathology, disorders of the hormonal system and other metabolic
diseases. There was a high level of energy intake for a number of years, which
averaged 2891±43.6 kcal in men, 2407±38.4 in women, due to excess of fat and
carbohydrates with a protein content of 82.4-87.3% of the recommended level. As a
result, the problem of healthy nutrition, bringing the diet in line with the real
physiological needs of a person requires serious systemic decisions in terms of
organizing, systematizing and standardizing nutrition.
EOF
The aim of this article is to study the problem of the nutritional status of
children in a modern Russian family. This work is based on the analysis of
statistical data of the results of a sample survey of households' budgets,
reflecting the interrelationship between the standard of living of the Russian
family and children, its material wealth, the possibility of high quality,
high-grade nutrition for all its members, especially children. The standard of
living, the share of food expenditure, the consumption of basic food groups, the 
nutritive and energy value of diets in households with children (a family with
one child, two, three or more children) were studied. The article discusses the
issues related to the limited consumption of various food products in families
with children. There is an increase in consumption of bread products and
potatoes, as well as sugar and confectionery products in all types of households 
with children, but especially in large families, while reducing the consumption
of other groups of products. The paper presents an analysis of the nutritive and 
energy value of the diet in all types of families surveyed. It is emphasized that
in households with one or two children the nutritive value of the diet is
significantly higher than in large families. In the diet of large families there 
is a lackof protein (11.8% of calories). The fat content in the diet of families 
with children exceeds the recommended level (34.8-36.6% of calories). In general,
the quality of nutrition in families with one child is higher than in households 
with two or more children. The nutritional status of children in families with
low incomes, which often include the average family with the birth of a child,
especially several, does not correspond to the medical and biological standards
approved for modern society. Obviously, the higher is living standard of the
population, the lower is the share of expenditure on food, and vice versa. With
the advent of children, the living standard of a household decreases. Thus,
according to official data, the share of food expenditures in families with
children in 2016 was 34.4% of the family budget for families raising one child,
36.9% for families raising two children, 40.1% for households with three or more 
children. Accordingly, the lower is the living standard of the family, the less
they spend on maintaining the health of children, their education and recreation.
The paper emphasizes that the problem of rational nutrition of the population has
a pronounced social and economic significance and belongs to the global
categories that play a significant role in ensuring the quality of life of a
person, maintaining his health and longevity of life.
EOF
The aims of this study was to develop recipe composition and to evaluate the use 
of new oxygen cocktail with high protein content in the dietary therapy of
cardiological patients. Objects of the study were: the control sample - an
oxygen-containing product prepared using dairy whey, fruit and berry juice,
highly esterified pectin; experimental samples - oxygen-containing products,
which differed from the control sample by additional introduction of whey protein
hydrolysate. Experimental samples have been modified by adding to them whey
protein hydrolysate in the amount of 1-3% from the total weight of composition.
Technological scheme to produce protein-carbohydrate basis with high content of
protein 3% has been developed, parameters of the production process were worked
out. Analysis of product chemical composition has shown that 100 g contained
3.4-3.6 g of protein, 0.2-0.3 g of fat, 6.0-8.0 g of carbohydrates. Food value of
the product made up 34-46 kcal (162-196 kJ). Assessment of effectiveness of new
oxygen-containing product in the diet in conditions of cardiological hospital was
carried out. 30 patients aged 60-75 years were included in local open prospective
study, meeting the following criteria: patients with chronic heart failure I-IIА 
stage I-II functional classes, were hospitalized in the cardiology department,
not having contraindications to enteral oxygen therapy and signed an informed
consent form. In combination with standard therapy patients received new
oxygenated product with high content of protein in the dose 250 ml (from 100 g of
the basis) daily for 10 days during the second breakfast. By the end of the
observation period, according to results of the survey, the psycho-emotional
state of patients improved. It has been found that the developed
oxygen-containing product with high protein content in combination with a
standard diet and drug therapy of the disease was well tolerated by patients.
EOF
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the possibility and effectiveness of
inclusion of specialized semi-finished meat products in the gluten-free diet of
children and adolescents with celiac disease. In the article the authors present 
the recipe for a new type of specialized meat semi-finished products -
gluten-free dumplings. As ingredients of semi-finished products rice flour,
amaranth flour, flax flour, chickpea flour, corn starch, curd whey, beef,
poultry, goose fat and other auxiliary ingredients were used. The results of
studies of the main quality indicators (nutritional value) of a new specialized
meat semi-finished product have been presented. The results of studies of the
protein component of the product, related both to protein digestibility
(evaluated in vitro) and to the degree of its amino acid balance, confirmed its
high biological value. To substantiate the effectiveness of the inclusion of
gluten-free dumplings in the diet of patients with celiac disease, clinical
approbation has been carried out. In an open, prospective, nonrandomized study,
20 children with celiac disease consumed gluten-free diet for 6 months and more
were included. Based on the results of the clinical and serological survey, a
group of 13 children aged 7 to 15 years (mean age 9.4±0.8 years), strictly
adherent to a gluten-free diet, was identified. Children received a portion of
the cooked product (15-20 dumplings, which amounted to 180-250 g per day) within 
1 month. Against the background of strict adherence to the gluten-free diet and a
monthly course of dumplings intake, all children and adolescents were noted to
have no elevation, and in some cases, a decrease in the level of specific
autoantibodies, which is a proof of the absolute safety of the product for
patients. The level of anti-tTG IgA decreased from 1.3 (0.5, 2.3) to 0.6 (0.1,
1.3) U/ml (p<0.05), a decrease in the level of anti-DPG IgA from 4.0 (1.1, 5.0)
to 1.8 (1.3, 4.1) U/ml (p<0, 05) was also detected. Patients showed a tendency to
improve anthropometric indices in the form of a decrease in the lag in the body
mass from -0.22±0.3σ to 0.01±0.3σ and BMI from -0.64±0.4σ to -0.52±0.4σ (p>0.05).
The hematological indices remained unchanged, while iron blood serum indexes on
the background of the product intake improved: ferritin concentration increased
from 27.4±3.6 to 37.7±6.0 μg/l (p<0.05), latent iron binding capacity decreased
by 9.6% (p<0.05); total iron binding capacity tended to decrease by 6.4%
(p=0.055) with a slight increase in iron transferrin saturation. The data
obtained testify a positive effect of a new product intake on quality of a life
and improvement of the general condition of patients that gives the basis to
recommend the developed dumplings for inclusion in diets of patients with celiac 
disease.
EOF
Alteration of food patterns leads to changes in nutritional status, thus
contributing to the development of non-communicable diseases accounting for over 
a half of all causes of death of the population of our country. Poor working
conditions and occupational hazards play an important role in inducing metabolic 
disorders and cardiovascular diseases. The objective of joint studies conducted
by two Healthy Nutrition Centers located in the cities of Yekaterinburg and
Moscow was to assess the diet and nutritional status of workers at two industrial
enterprises of the Sverdlovsk Region. The total of 347 unrefined copper
production workers (Plant 1) and 267 iron ore miners (Plant 2) were included in
the study (the average age was 45.7±0.4 and 50.4±0.6 years, respectively). The
study design envisaged a study of actual nutrition by a frequency method,
anthropometric indices, total body composition by bio-impedancemetry, and
nutritional status biomarkers using biochemical blood indices. The workers' diet 
was characterized by a high energy value (more than 2,500 kcal/day) with an
excess of total and saturated fats (40.7-41.0 and 15.2-15.3% by the calorie
content) as well as mono- and disaccharides (19.0-21.0% by the calorie content). 
Vitamins C and A consumption of the iron ore miners was 78% (p<0.01) and 27%
(p<0.05) lower than that of the unrefined copper production workers,
respectively. High (>1.0) waist to hip ratios were estimated in 28.5% of the
workers. Obesity (BMI>25.0 kg/m2) was established in 36-42% of our subjects and
the fat mass excess - in 81% of them. High serum concentrations of low-density
lipoproteins were measured in 28 and 35% of the workers of both plants,
respectively. The metabolic syndrome was identified in 27.0% of Plant 1 workers
and in 44.2% of Plant 2 miners, whereas cardiovascular diseases were diagnosed in
25.9 and 56.5% of the workers, respectively. The effect of genetic factors
(rs993609 polymorphism of FTO gene and Trp64Arg polymorphism in ADRB3 gene) on
the development of obesity and metabolic disorders was demonstrated.
EOF
Consumption of diets that are inadequate in energy value to the actual energy
expenditure can lead to the development of metabolic syndrome (MS), which has
consequences such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic steatohepatosis,
atherosclerosis, gout, allergic diseases. Experimental models of MS are needed to
develop new approaches to its dietary and drug correction. The aim of the work
was a comparative analysis of functional, biochemical and vitamin markers
characterizing the effect of a diet with a high content of fructose (F) on males 
and females of various rat lines and the selection on this basis of an optimal in
vivo MS model. Male and female rats of the outbred Wistar line (W) and the inbred
Dark Agouti line (DA) were used in the work number of 16 individuals of each sex 
and line. The animals of the 1st (control) groups of each sex and line received a
balanced semi-synthetic diet according to AIN93, and the animals of the 2nd
(experimental) groups - the same diet and 30% solution of F instead of water in
the regime of free access. Within 121 days, energy value of diets consumed, the
increase in body weight and blood pressure were determined; relative mass of
internal organs, biochemical parameters of blood plasma, content of fat-soluble
vitamins A and E in blood plasma and liver were determined at withdrawal of
animals from experiment. It was shown that, in spite of the increased energy
value of the diet in the experimental groups throughout experiment, DA males and 
females practically did not respond to this by an increase in body weight gain,
in contrast to W rats (in particular, females). Consumption of diets with F led
to an increase in glucose level irrespective of gender and line, whereas
triglyceride level (TG) significantly increased only in the case of W female.
Addition of F caused in DA rats of both sexes an increase in the mass of the
kidneys, as well as more pronounced, in comparison with W rats manifestation of
markers of toxic effects on the liver (increases alanine aminotransferase and
γ-glutamyltransferase activity, elevated urea and bilirubin level in blood
plasma). In rats of both lines intake of F suppressed the accumulation of retinol
palmitate in the liver in terms of its specific content. The total content of
α-tocopherol in liver was significantly higher in W compared with DA. At the same
time, α-tocopherol levels in blood plasma correlated with TG, and the
α-tocopherol/TG ratio significantly decreased in female W receiving F, which were
characterized by hyperlipidemia. Thus, the effect of F on W males and, in
particular, females, basically corresponded to the classical picture of MS with
body weight increasing, elevated blood pressure, glycemia and TG increase,
whereas the toxic effect of F prevailed in DA liver and, possibly, kidneys
without development of marked dyslipidemia and obesity.
EOF
Insoluble residue (INS) is a lignin-rich fraction of brewer's spent grain (BSG)
that also contains β-glucan and arabinoxylan, the major constituents of dietary
fiber. We investigated the effects of INS in diet-induced obese mice in terms of 
lipid metabolism and metabolic diseases. Male mice (C57bl6) were fed a high-fat
diet (HFD), a HFD + 20% INS, a HFD + 20% cellulose (CEL), a HFD with a
combination of 20% INS-CEL (1:1), or a control diet for 14 weeks. Insulin and
glucose tolerance tests were performed after 12 weeks. Fasting plasma lipids,
bile acid, and fecal bile acid were measured after 14 weeks of feeding, and
tissues were collected for gene expression analysis. Body weight gain was
significantly reduced with all fibers, but only INS and INS-CEL decreased fasting
plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and total cholesterol compared to HFD.
CEL and INS-CEL significantly improved insulin resistance. Fecal bile acids were 
significantly increased by all fibers, but there was no change in plasma bile
acid. Clostridium leptum was increased with all fibers, but universal bacterial
diversity was only with INS and INS-CEL. In addition, INS significantly increased
the abundance of Bacteriodes, while CEL decreased Atopobium and Lactobacillus.
INS feeding significantly upregulated various genes of cholesterol and bile acid 
metabolism, such as Srebp2, Hmgcr, Ldlr, Cyp7a1, Pparα, Fxr, and Pxr, in the
liver. INS, INS-CEL, and CEL significantly attenuated liver steatosis. Our
results suggest that INS from BSG induced beneficial systemic changes in mice via
gut microbiota, bile acids, and gene expression in the liver.
EOF
Palatable hypercaloric feeding has been associated with angiotensin-II type 1
receptor (AT1R) stimulation and cardiac remodeling. This study analyzed whether
AT1R antagonism attenuates cardiac remodeling in rats subjected to a palatable
hypercaloric diet. Male Wistar-Kyoto rats were subjected to a commercial standard
rat chow (CD) or a palatable hypercaloric diet (HD) for 35 weeks and then
allocated into four groups: CD, CL, HD, and HL; L groups received losartan in
drinking water (30 mg/kg/day) for 5 weeks. Body weight, adiposity, and glycemia
were evaluated. The cardiovascular study included echocardiography, and
myocardial morphometric and ultrastructural evaluation. Myocardial collagen
isoforms Type I and III were analyzed by Western blot. Both HD and HL had higher 
adiposity than their respective controls. Cardiomyocyte cross-sectional-area (CD 
285 ± 49; HD 344 ± 91; CL 327 ± 49; HL 303 ± 49 μm2 ) and interstitial collagen
fractional area were significantly higher in HD than CD and unchanged by
losartan. HD showed marked ultrastructural alterations such as myofilament loss, 
and severe mitochondrial swelling. CL presented higher Type I collagen expression
when compared to CD and HL groups. The ultrastructural changes and type I
collagen expression were attenuated by losartan in HL. Losartan attenuates
systolic dysfunction and ultrastructural abnormalities without changing
myocardial interstitial remodeling in rats subjected to a palatable hypercaloric 
diet.
EOF
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and endothelial lipase (EL) are involved in lipoprotein 
metabolism. In insulin-resistance, their behavior is altered. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) and apoproteins (apo)CII and CIII could
be partly responsible for these alterations. To evaluate this response, we
assessed Lpl and Lipg expression, protein levels, and enzyme activity in adipose 
tissue (AT) and heart in an obesity model. Besides, we assessed the role of PPAR 
and apoC. Male Wistar rats were fed with standard diet (Control, n = 14) or
high-fat diet (HFD, n = 14) for 14 weeks. Glucose and lipoprotein profiles were
measured. Histological studies were performed in heart and epididymal AT. Lpl and
Lipg were assessed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), 
protein levels by Western Blot, and activities by radiometric assays. Cardiac and
AT PPAR expression were measured by Western Blot and hepatic Apoc2 and Apoc3 mRNA
by RT-qPCR. In HFD, fat deposits were observed in hearts, whereas AT presented a 
higher adipocyte size. In heart and AT, no differences were found in Lipg mRNA
between groups, while AT Lpl mRNA and LPL protein were decreased in HFD, without 
differences in heart. In both tissues, EL protein levels and activity were
increased and inversely associated with decreased LPL activity, being partially
responsible for the atherogenic lipoprotein profile in HFD. PPARγ expression in
AT was decreased in HFD, without differences in cardiac PPARδ expression and
hepatic apoC mRNA. The increase in EL activity could be an alternative pathway
for fatty acid release from lipoproteins and uptake in tissues with decreased LPL
activity. In AT, PPARγ could be involved in enzyme regulation.
EOF
We report the case of a 6-year-old boy with citrin deficiency and advanced
hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosed by using imaging. He exhibited intrahepatic
cholestasis 2 days after his birth and was misdiagnosed with inspissated bile
syndrome at that time. The symptoms of jaundice spontaneously resolved when he
was 5 months old. However, his transaminase levels remained elevated for ∼6
years, for which he received no treatment. He preferred a high-protein, high-fat,
low-carbohydrate diet, which has been observed in many patients with citrin
deficiency, but no clinical features of adult-onset type II citrullinemia were
observed. At the age of 6 years, he was admitted to our hospital with a nonviral 
infection and high α-fetoprotein level; results from an abdominal MRI and
computed tomography revealed multiple tumors in the liver. Because of his history
of intrahepatic cholestasis in the neonatal period, he was suspected to have
citrin deficiency. A genetic analysis of solute carrier family 25, member 13
revealed the presence of a homozygous 851del4 mutation, and a diagnosis of citrin
deficiency was made. The patient did not qualify for liver transplantation and
died 2 months later, after discharge from our hospital. Thus, this case reveals
that not all patients with neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis spontaneously and
totally improve, and this case is used to emphasize that patients with neonatal
intrahepatic cholestasis should be managed carefully, especially in the stage of 
failure to thrive and dyslipidemia caused by citrin deficiency, which may lead to
advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes (TD2) is a sustained metabolic disorder,
characterized by high blood glucose, insulin resistance (IR). Dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 (DPP4) functions as an antigenic enzyme involved in hyperglycaemia,
oxidative stress, and inflammation-associated IR. Therefore, association between 
DPP4 and TD2 warrants to be investigated.
METHODS: In this study, blood samples of clinically diagnosed TD2 patients were
harvested for biochemical tests. In addition, diabetic mice induced by high-fat
diet (HFD) and single dose of streptozotocin (STZ) were used to assess the
biological characteristics of DPP4 through biochemical and enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) tests, immunofluorescence staining, and western blot 
assay.
RESULTS: Compared to controls, the clinical data of patients with TD2 resulted in
increased contents of fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c),
homeostatic model assessment (HOMA)-IR, blood lipids of triglyceride (TG), total 
cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C), and interleukin 6 (IL6) in
plasma samples (p < 0.05). Notably, blood levels of DPP4 in TD2 patients were
increased significantly in comparison to that in non-diabetic adults (p < 0.01). 
In animal study, diabetic mice showed increased levels of glucose, insulin,
lipids, DPP4 activity in sera. Visibly, hepatocellular DPP4 expression was
up-regulated in diabetic mice. Interestingly, DPP4 inhibitor-treated mice showed 
significantly reduced DPP4 expression in serum (p < 0.01), and lowered
DPP4-positive cells and protein content in the liver were observed when compared 
to those in diabetic mice (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these findings reveal that DPP4 biomolecule may be
positively associated with TD2 development, and the underlying mechanism may be
attributed to activation of DPP4 expression in liver cells.
EOF
Although the effects of cow diet on cheese sensory properties have been well
documented, the putative interactions between the biochemical and microbial milk 
components and their respective roles in the development of the sensory
properties of cheeses have yet to be explored in depth. The aim of this study was
to evaluate the specific contribution of milk fat composition to the formation of
cheese sensory properties. Two creams with different fat compositions were
obtained from cows fed either pasture or maize silage. Cheeses were manufactured 
from the same skim milk (identical chemical and microbial composition) with
either the pasture- or maize silage-origin pasteurized cream added. The gross
composition and microbial composition of milks did not vary with cream origin. In
milks and cheeses, the fatty acid (FA) profiles were modified by the origin of
the cream. The concentrations of C18:0 and unsaturated FA such as cis-9 C18:1,
trans-11 C18:1, C18:3n-3, total conjugated linoleic acids, and mono- and
polyunsaturated FA were higher in milks and cheeses with the pasture-origin cream
than in those with the maize-origin cream. In contrast, the maize milks and
cheeses had higher concentrations of short- and medium-chain saturated FA, C16:0,
and C18:2n-6. The level of lipolysis was 11% in the cheese rind and only 0.30% in
the cheese core. The rind of pasture cheeses had a higher concentration of free
C18:0 and C18:3n-3 and a lower concentration of free C14:0 and free C16:0 than
the rind of maize cheeses. The levels of major microbial groups were similar in
pasture and maize cheeses at different stages of ripening. The pasture cheeses
had a more elastic and creamier texture, a yellower color, and a thinner rind
than the maize cheeses, but the odor and aroma of cheeses were not affected by
the origin of the cream, despite a few modifications in the balance of volatile
compounds from FA catabolism. Based on these results, we conclude that milk fat
composition modulated by cow diet had a direct role in the texture of the cheese 
but no effect on flavor. The high degree of lipolysis in cheese rind, along with 
the higher concentration of long-chain unsaturated free FA in pasture cheeses may
be responsible for antimicrobial activity, which could explain differences in the
appearance of cheese rind.
EOF
Flaxseed has been extensively used as a supplement for dairy cows because of its 
high concentrations of energy and the n-3 fatty acid (FA) cis-9,cis-12,cis-15
18:3. However, limited information is available regarding the effect of ground
flaxseed on dry matter intake (DMI), ruminal fermentation, and nutrient
utilization in grazing dairy cows. Twenty multiparous Jersey cows averaging (mean
± standard deviation) 111 ± 49 d in milk in the beginning of the study were used 
in a randomized complete block design to investigate the effects of supplementing
herbage (i.e., grazed forage) with ground corn-soybean meal mix (control diet =
CTRL) or ground flaxseed (flaxseed diet = FLX) on animal production, milk FA,
ruminal metabolism, and nutrient digestibility. The study was conducted from June
to September 2013, with data and sample collection taking place on wk 4, 8, 12,
and 16. Cows were fed a diet formulated to yield a 60:40 forage-to-concentrate
ratio consisting of (dry matter basis): 40% cool-season perennial herbage, 50%
partial total mixed ration, and 10% of ground corn-soybean meal mix or 10% ground
flaxseed. However, estimated herbage DMI averaged 5.59 kg/d or 34% of the total
DMI. Significant treatment by week interactions were observed for milk and blood 
urea N, and several milk FA (e.g., trans-10 18:1). No significant differences
between treatments were observed for herbage and total DMI, milk yield, feed
efficiency, concentrations and yields of milk components, and urinary excretion
of purine derivatives. Total-tract digestibility of organic matter decreased,
whereas that of neutral detergent fiber increased with feeding FLX versus CTRL.
No treatment effects were observed for ruminal concentrations of total volatile
FA and NH3-N, and ruminal proportions of acetate and propionate. Ruminal butyrate
tended to decrease, and the acetate-to-propionate ratio decreased in the FLX
diet. Most saturated and unsaturated FA in milk fat were changed. Specifically,
milk proportion of cis-9,cis-12,cis-15 18:3, Σn-3 FA, and Σ18C FA increased,
whereas that of cis-9,cis-12 18:2, Σn-6 FA, Σ odd-chain FA, Σ<16C FA, and Σ16C FA
decreased with feeding FLX versus the CTRL diet. In conclusion, feeding FLX did
not change yields of milk and milk components, but increased milk n-3 FA.
Therefore, costs and industry adoption of premiums for n-3-enriched milk will
determine the adoption of ground flaxseed in pasture-based dairy farms.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: Wistar and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats are generally used as models
for the cholesterol metabolism experiments. They are acceptable to high fat
diet-induced disorders with individual variations, including dyslipidemia and
abnormal cardiac pathology.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effects of high fat diet in inducing dyslipidemia and
cardiac pathological alterations between Wistar and SD rats.
METHODS: We compared the differences in plasma cholesterol levels and cardiac
pathological alterations between Wistar and SD rats of standard diet (3.90
kcal/g) and high fat diet (5.40 kcal/g) after 4 weeks.
RESULTS: SD rats fed with high fat diet showed significantly enhanced LDL
concentration and the decreased HDL concentration when compared to Wistar rats.
Additionally, SD rats showed cardiac pathological alterations such as
infiltration of mononuclear cells referring to inflammatory response and high
amounts of perivascular fat playing a key role in the impairment of vascular
functions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that SD rats may be the more suitable model for
dyslipidemia and alteration of cardiac pathology induced by high fat diet.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Research has been conducted to assess the effectiveness of weight
management, dietary and physical activity interventions in military settings.
However, a recent and comprehensive overview is lacking. The aim of this
systematic review is to examine the evidence and describe key components of
effective interventions in terms of improving body composition, dietary
behaviors, and physical activity among active-duty military personnel.
METHODS: PubMed, PsycInfo, and CINAHL were searched on the 17th of November 2017 
to identify interventions that promoted diet and/or physical activity among
active-duty military personnel. Studies were included if they assessed outcomes
related to anthropometric measurements, dietary behaviors, or fitness/physical
activity levels. There were no restrictions regarding publication date, follow-up
duration, and sex. After screening, a total of 136 studies were eligible. Of
these studies, 38 included an educational and/or behavioral change component, and
98 had only physical or fitness training as part of basic military training. Only
studies that included an educational and/or behavioral change component were
assessed for quality using the Effective Public Health Practice Project tool and 
included in the qualitative synthesis of the results.
RESULTS: Based on consistent evidence from studies that were rated as moderate or
strong, there is good evidence that military weight management interventions are 
effective in improving body composition for durations of up to 12 months.
Effective interventions are more likely to be high intensity (have a greater
number of sessions), are more often delivered by specialists, and use theoretical
base/behavioral change techniques and a standardized guideline. Dietary
interventions can potentially reduce total fat and saturated fat intake. Dietary 
interventions that target the kitchen staff and/or increase the availability of
healthy food are more likely to be effective in the short term. The results
regarding military physical fitness interventions were inconclusive.
CONCLUSION: Despite limitations such as the diversity and heterogeneity of the
included interventions, outcome measurements, and follow-up duration, this
systematic review found good evidence that weight management interventions are
effective, especially in terms of weight loss. More studies are needed to acquire
solid evidence for effectiveness for durations longer than 12 months and to
identify key components of the effective dietary and physical activity
educational and/or behavioral change interventions, especially in countries
outside Europe and the US.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Postprandial non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) and triglyceride (TG)
responses are increased in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and may 
impair insulin action and increase risk of cardiovascular disease and death.
Dietary carbohydrate reduction has been suggested as non-pharmacological therapy 
for T2DM, but the acute effects on NEFA and TG during subsequent meals remain to 
be investigated.
METHODS: Postprandial NEFA and TG responses were assessed in subjects with T2DM
by comparing a carbohydrate-reduced high-protein (CRHP) diet with a conventional 
diabetes (CD) diet in an open-label, randomized, cross-over study. Each diet was 
consumed on two consecutive days, separated by a wash-out period. The iso-caloric
CRHP/CD diets contained 31/54 E% from carbohydrate, 29/16 E% energy from protein 
and 40/30 E% from fat, respectively. Sixteen subjects with well-controlled T2DM
(median HbA1c 47 mmol/mol, (37-67 mmol/mol) and BMI 30 ± 4.4 kg/m2) participated 
in the study. NEFA and TG were evaluated following breakfast and lunch.
RESULTS: NEFA net area under curve (AUC) was increased by 97 ± 38 μmol/Lx270 min 
(p = 0.024) after breakfast but reduced by 141 ± 33 μmol/Lx180 min (p < 0.001)
after lunch on the CRHP compared with CD diet. Likewise, TG net AUC was increased
by 80 ± 28 μmol/Lx270 min (p = 0.012) after breakfast but reduced by
320 ± 60 μmol/Lx180 min (p < 0.001) after lunch on the CRHP compared with CD
diet.
CONCLUSIONS: In well-controlled T2DM a modest reduction of dietary carbohydrate
with a corresponding increase in protein and fat acutely reduced postprandial
serum NEFA suppression and increased serum TG responses after a breakfast meal
but had the opposite effect after a lunch meal. The mechanism behind this
second-meal phenomenon of CRHP diet on important risk factors for aggravating
T2DM and cardiovascular disease awaits further investigation.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov ID:
NCT02472951. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02472951 . Registered June
16, 2015.
EOF
BACKGOUND: Chronic fat-rich diets consumption is increased risk associated with
cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Prevention or reduction the progression of cardiac
tissue deterioration could benefit in CVD. This study aimed to examine the
effects of maoberry (Antidesma bunius), a antioxidant-rich tropical fruit,
supplementation on oxidative stress and inflammation in cardiac tissues of rats
fed a high-fat diet (HFD).
METHODS: The male rats orally received HFD with maoberry extract doses of 0.38,
0.76 or 1.52 g/kg or simvastatin (10 mg/kg) for 12 weeks. At the end of the
experimental period, the rats were fasted, euthanized and harvested for the
hearts.
RESULTS: Significantly reduced oxidative stress (malondialdehyde levels) and
enhanced antioxidant capacity (ferric-reducing activities) in cardiac tissues of 
the rats were found. Maoberry extract remarkably ameliorated the expressions of
genes involved with pro-inflammatory such as the tumor necrosis factor alpha
(TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1),
monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase 
(eNOS).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that maoberry extract has remarkable effects on
preventing progression of cardiac tissue deterioration at least through lowering 
oxidative stress and inflammation.
EOF
Obesity and diabetes increase the risk of depression, and the incidence of these 
conditions increases rapidly after menopause, but few animal models of
postmenopausal obesity have been available. We developed a mouse model of
postmenopausal obesity that exhibited anxiety and depressive phenotypes in
behavioral tests. To examine the effect of estradiol (E2) in the model, we
prepared 4 experimental groups: 1) control, sham-operated female C57BL/6 mice fed
a regular diet; 2) OVX-HF, ovariectomized (OVX) mice fed a high-fat diet (HF); 3)
E2-SC, OVX-HF mice administered subcutaneous (SC) E2 (50 μg/kg/day); and 4)
E2-ICV, OVX-HF mice administered intracerebroventricular (ICV) E2 (1 μg/kg/day). 
OVX-HF mice exhibited anxiety phenotypes in the open field test, but not in the
light-dark box test, and E2 treatment via both routes effectively ameliorated it.
OVX-HF mice demonstrated depressive phenotypes in the tail suspension test and
forced swim test. Both E2 treatments achieved significant improvement in the tail
suspension test, but not in the forced swim test. Serum corticosterone levels did
not differ among the groups. Hippocampal expression of glucocorticoid receptor
mRNA and serotonin 1A receptor mRNA was significantly increased in OVX-HF mice
and was decreased in E2-treated mice. The hypothalamic level of pro-brain-derived
neurotrophic factor (proBDNF) protein was tended to decrease in OVX-HF mice, but 
neither E2 treatment increased it. Since this mouse model exhibited anxiety and
depressive phenotypes in relatively short experimental periods without genetic
manipulations, it would be useful for further exploring psychiatric phenotypes or
screening of therapeutic candidates in postmenopausal obesity.
EOF
Noncoding RNAs are emerging as important players in gene regulation and disease
pathogeneses. Here, we show that a previously uncharacterized long noncoding RNA,
nexilin F-actin binding protein antisense RNA 1 (NEXN-AS1), modulates the
expression of the actin-binding protein NEXN and that NEXN exerts a protective
role against atherosclerosis. An expression microarray analysis showed that the
expression of both NEXN-AS1 and NEXN was reduced in human atherosclerotic
plaques. In vitro experiments revealed that NEXN-AS1 interacted with the
chromatin remodeler BAZ1A and the 5' flanking region of the NEXN gene and that it
also upregulated NEXN expression. Augmentation of NEXN-AS1 expression inhibited
TLR4 oligomerization and NF-κB activity, downregulated the expression of adhesion
molecules and inflammatory cytokines by endothelial cells, and suppressed
monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells. These inhibitory effects of NEXN-AS1 were
abolished by knockdown of NEXN. In vivo experiments using ApoE-knockout mice fed 
a Western high-fat diet demonstrated that NEXN deficiency promoted
atherosclerosis and increased macrophage abundance in atherosclerotic lesions,
with heightened expression of adhesion molecules and inflammatory cytokines,
whereas augmented NEXN expression deterred atherosclerosis. Patients with
coronary artery disease were found to have lower blood NEXN levels than healthy
individuals. These results indicate that NEXN-AS1 and NEXN represent potential
therapeutic targets in atherosclerosis-related diseases.
EOF
Food restriction has been recommended as an effective strategy for body weight
loss. However, food restriction can alter biological rhythms and leads to
physiological stress. However, relatively little is known about the physiological
impact of different methods of food restriction. Therefore, we investigated
whether different schedules of restricted food intake induce physiological stress
and then contribute to glucose metabolism disorder. C57BL/6 mice were fed a high 
fat diet (60% fat) for 8 weeks and then randomly divided into three groups: the
control group was continuously fed the high fat diet; the two food restriction
groups were fed 50% of food consumed by the control mice with one group (FR1)
being fed the full amount once a day and the other group (FR2) being fed the same
total amount as FR1 twice a day for 3 days. We found increased body weight loss, 
the serum triglyceride levels, the expression of lipolysis-related genes, and
serum corticosterone levels in the FR1 group compared with the FR2 group. The
immune cell population infiltrating the adipose tissue and the expression of
monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP-1) and toll-like receptor (TLR-4) mRNA were
increased in the FR1 group compared with the control. To determine whether
long-term dietary manipulation is associated with metabolic disorders, mice were 
fed a restricted diet for 3 days alternating with an unrestricted diet for the
following 4 days and this was repeated for 8 weeks. The alternating FR1 group
showed impaired glucose tolerance compared with the alternating FR2 group. These 
results indicate that infrequent feeding of restricted amounts of food could
induce stress hormones, lipolysis, adipose tissue immune cell infiltration and
inflammation, which in turn may promote glucose metabolism disorder.
EOF
Objective- Inflammatory stimuli enhance the progression of atherosclerotic
disease. Inflammation also increases the expression of hepcidin, a hormonal
regulator of iron homeostasis, which decreases intestinal iron absorption,
reduces serum iron levels and traps iron within macrophages. The role of
macrophage iron in the development of atherosclerosis remains incompletely
understood. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of
hepcidin deficiency and decreased macrophage iron on the development of
atherosclerosis. Approach and Results- Hepcidin- and LDL (low-density
lipoprotein) receptor-deficient ( Hamp-/-/ Ldlr-/-) mice and Hamp+/+/ Ldlr-/-
control mice were fed a high-fat diet for 21 weeks. Compared with control mice,
Hamp-/-/ Ldlr-/- mice had decreased aortic macrophage activity and
atherosclerosis. Because hepcidin deficiency is associated with both increased
serum iron and decreased macrophage iron, the possibility that increased serum
iron was responsible for decreased atherosclerosis in Hamp-/-/ Ldlr-/- mice was
considered. Hamp+/+/ Ldlr-/- mice were treated with iron dextran so as to produce
a 2-fold increase in serum iron. Increased serum iron did not decrease
atherosclerosis in Hamp+/+/ Ldlr-/- mice. Aortic macrophages from Hamp-/-/
Ldlr-/- mice had less labile free iron and exhibited a reduced proinflammatory
(M1) phenotype compared with macrophages from Hamp+/+/ Ldlr-/- mice. THP1 human
macrophages treated with an iron chelator were used to model hepcidin deficiency 
in vitro. Treatment with an iron chelator reduced LPS
(lipopolysaccharide)-induced M1 phenotypic expression and decreased uptake of
oxidized LDL. Conclusions- In summary, in a hyperlipidemic mouse model, hepcidin 
deficiency was associated with decreased macrophage iron, a reduced aortic
macrophage inflammatory phenotype and protection from atherosclerosis. The
results indicate that decreasing hepcidin activity, with the resulting decrease
in macrophage iron, may prove to be a novel strategy for the treatment of
atherosclerosis.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: Dietary pattern analysis is used to describe the dietary habits of 
a selected population. In many studies, dietary patterns (DPs) have been
associated with risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). The aim of the
study was to assess the association between dietary patterns identified in the
population of Lower Silesia, Poland, with anthropometric and biochemical risk
factors for CVD.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study group included 2,025 participants of the
Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiological (PURE) Study. Dietary intake was
evaluated based on data from the Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ). Dietary
patterns were derived using principal component analysis (PCA). The relationship 
between DPs and body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, waist-hip ratio,
blood pressure, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
triglycerides and fasting glucose level, was assessed.
RESULTS: Three dietary patterns identified in the study explained 35.6% of total 
variance. The 'fruit, vegetables & dairy' DP, characterized by a high intake of
vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds, raisins, milk and low-fat dairy, was associated 
with improved lipid profile and anthropometric measures, lower diastolic blood
pressure and lower fasting glucose concentration. 'Traditional' and 'fat & sugar'
DPs were unfavourably associated with most of the risk factors for CVD presented 
in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietary patterns identified in this study were differently related
to selected anthropometric and biochemical risk factors for CVD. 'Fruit,
vegetables & dairy' DP was favourably associated with the biochemical and
anthropometric CVD risk factors, and was characterized by higher nutritional
value in comparison with 'traditional' and 'fat & sugar' DPs.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The majority of the human genome comprises non-coding sequences,
which are in part transcribed as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). LncRNAs exhibit 
multiple functions including the epigenetic control of gene expression. Here we
studied the effect of the lncRNA MALAT1 on atherosclerosis.
METHODS: The effect of MALAT1 on atherosclerosis was determined in Apoe-/-
Malat1-/- mice that were fed with a high-fat diet and by studying the regulation 
of MALAT1 in human plaques.
RESULTS: Apoe-/- Malat1-/- mice that were fed with a high-fat diet showed
increased plaque size and infiltration of inflammatory CD45+ cells compared to
Apoe-/- Malat1+/+ control mice. Bone marrow transplantation of Apoe-/- Malat1-/- 
bone marrow cells in Apoe-/- Malat1+/+ mice enhanced atherosclerotic lesion
formation suggesting that hematopoietic cells mediate the proatherosclerotic
phenotype. Indeed, bone marrow cells isolated from Malat1-/- mice showed
increased adhesion to endothelial cells and elevated levels of pro-inflammatory
mediators. Moreover, myeloid cells of Malat1-/- mice displayed enhanced adhesion 
to atherosclerotic arteries in vivo. The anti-inflammatory effects of MALAT1 were
attributed in part to the reduction of miR-503. MALAT1 expression was further
significantly decreased in human plaques compared to normal arteries and was
lower in symptomatic versus asymptomatic patients. Lower levels of MALAT1 in
human plaques were associated with a worse prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced levels of MALAT1 augment atherosclerotic lesion formation in
mice and are associated with human atherosclerotic disease. The
pro-atherosclerotic effects observed in Malat1-/- mice were mainly caused by
enhanced accumulation of hematopoietic cells.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Although the role of Th17 and regulatory T cells in the progression
of atherosclerosis has been highlighted in recent years, their molecular
mediators remain elusive. We aimed to evaluate the association between the CD69
receptor, a regulator of Th17/regulatory T cell immunity, and atherosclerosis
development in animal models and in patients with subclinical disease.
METHODS: Low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient chimeric mice expressing or
not expressing CD69 on either myeloid or lymphoid cells were subjected to a high 
fat diet. In vitro functional assays with human T cells were performed to
decipher the mechanism of the observed phenotypes. Expression of CD69 and NR4A
nuclear receptors was evaluated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain
reaction in 305 male participants of the PESA study (Progression of Early
Subclinical Atherosclerosis) with extensive (n=128) or focal (n=55) subclinical
atherosclerosis and without disease (n=122).
RESULTS: After a high fat diet, mice lacking CD69 on lymphoid cells developed
large atheroma plaque along with an increased Th17/regulatory T cell ratio in
blood. Oxidized low-density lipoprotein was shown to bind specifically and
functionally to CD69 on human T lymphocytes, inhibiting the development of Th17
cells through the activation of NR4A nuclear receptors. Participants of the PESA 
study with evidence of subclinical atherosclerosis displayed a significant CD69
and NR4A1 mRNA downregulation in peripheral blood leukocytes compared with
participants without disease. The expression of CD69 remained associated with the
risk of subclinical atherosclerosis in an adjusted multivariable logistic
regression model (odds ratio, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.40-0.94; P=0.006) after adjustment 
for traditional risk factors, the expression of NR4A1, the level of oxidized
low-density lipoprotein, and the counts of different leucocyte subsets.
CONCLUSIONS: CD69 depletion from the lymphoid compartment promotes a
Th17/regulatory T cell imbalance and exacerbates the development of
atherosclerosis. CD69 binding to oxidized low-density lipoprotein on T cells
induces the expression of anti-inflammatory transcription factors. Data from a
cohort of the PESA study with subclinical atherosclerosis indicate that CD69
expression in PBLs inversely correlates with the presence of disease. The
expression of CD69 remained an independent predictor of subclinical
atherosclerosis after adjustment for traditional risk factors.
EOF
Dietary macronutrient composition alters metabolism through several mechanisms,
including post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins. To connect diet and 
molecular changes, here we performed short- and long-term feeding of mice with
standard chow diet (SCD) and high-fat diet (HFD), with or without glucose or
fructose supplementation, and quantified liver metabolites, 861 proteins, and
1,815 protein level-corrected mitochondrial acetylation and succinylation sites. 
Nearly half the acylation sites were altered by at least one diet;
nutrient-specific changes in protein acylation sometimes encompass entire
pathways. Although acetyl-CoA is an intermediate in both sugar and fat
metabolism, acetyl-CoA had a dichotomous fate depending on its source; chronic
feeding of dietary sugars induced protein hyperacetylation, whereas the same
duration of HFD did not. Instead, HFD resulted in citrate accumulation,
anaplerotic metabolism of amino acids, and protein hypo-succinylation. Together, 
our results demonstrate novel connections between dietary macronutrients, protein
post-translational modifications, and regulation of fuel selection in liver.
EOF
α1 Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α1nAChR) is an important nicotine receptor
that is widely distributed in vascular smooth muscle cells, macrophages, and
endothelial cells. However, the role of α1nAChR in nicotine-mediated
atherosclerosis remains unclear. The administration of nicotine for 12 weeks
increased the area of the atherosclerotic lesion, the number of macrophages
infiltrating the plaques, and the circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines,
such as interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α, in apolipoprotein E-deficient 
(ApoE-/- ) mice fed a high-fat diet. Nicotine also increased α1nAChR, calpain-1, 
matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and MMP-9 expression in the aortic tissue.
Silencing of α1nAChR with an adenoassociated virus decreased the atherosclerotic 
size, lesion macrophage content, and circulating levels of inflammatory cytokines
and suppressed α1nAChR, calpain-1, MMP-2, and MMP-9 expression in the nicotine
group. In vitro, nicotine-induced α1nAChR, calpain-1, MMP-2, and MMP-9 expression
in mouse vascular smooth muscle cells (MOVAS) and macrophages (RAW264.7), and
enhanced the migration and proliferation of these cells. The silencing of α1nAChR
inhibited these effects of nicotine MOVAS and RAW264.7 cells. Thus, we concluded 
that nicotine promoted the development of atherosclerosis partially by inducing
the migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and macrophages
and inducing an inflammatory reaction. The effect of nicotine on atherogenesis
may be mediated by α1nAChR-induced activation of the calpain-1/MMP-2/MMP-9
signaling pathway.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second and third most frequent cancer 
in women and men, respectively; indeed, CRC is placed as the fourth world's most 
deadly cancer (after lung, liver, and stomach cancer). The incidence of CRC is
strongly influenced by nutrition and the high fat/high carbohydrate Western-style
diet. CRC is one of the most intensively studied cancer types, partly because of 
its high prevalence, but also because of the existence of its precursor lesions, 
tubular or villous adenomas, and more recently serrated adenomas. The
morphological steps in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence have been elucidated at a
molecular level, which has allowed the identification of the genes responsible
for CRC. Review and Conclusions: The main aim of this review is to provide data
regarding the pathophysiological characteristics, molecular mechanisms as well as
carcinogenic and chemopreventive agents for CRC, with emphasis on evidence
supporting their efficacy. These compounds may modulate multiple signaling
pathways involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis in transformed cells, they 
also enhance the host immune system and favor an effective treatment. Despite
promising results from experimental studies, only a limited number of these
compounds have been tested in clinical trials. The mechanistic spectrum and
specificity of the action of phytochemicals represent a complex and evolving
field of research.
EOF
Peroxisomes play a central role in lipid metabolism. We previously demonstrated
that Pex11a deficiency impairs peroxisome abundance and fatty acid β-oxidation
and results in hepatic triglyceride accumulation. The role of Pex11a in
dyslipidaemia and obesity is investigated here with Pex11a knockout mice
(Pex11a-/- ). Metabolic phenotypes including tissue weight, glucose tolerance,
insulin sensitivity, cholesterol levels, fatty acid profile, oxygen consumption, 
physical activity were assessed in wild-type (WT) and Pex11a-/- fed with a
high-fat diet. Molecular changes and peroxisome abundance in adipose tissue were 
evaluated through qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and Immunofluorescence. Pex11a-/-
showed increased fat mass, decreased skeletal muscle, higher cholesterol levels, 
and more severely impaired glucose and insulin tolerance. Pex11a-/- consumed less
oxygen, indicating a decrease in fatty acid oxidation, which is consistent with
the accumulation of very long- and long-chain fatty acids. Adipose palmitic acid 
(C16:0) levels were elevated in Pex11a-/- , which may be because of dramatically 
increased fatty acid synthase mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, Pex11a
deficiency increased ventricle size and macrophage infiltration, which are
related to the reduced physical activity. These data demonstrate that Pex11a
deficiency impairs physical activity and energy expenditure, decreases fatty acid
β-oxidation, increases de novo lipogenesis and results in dyslipidaemia and
obesity.
EOF
Adiponectin plays a role in asthma and obesity, but its effects and mechanism in 
obesity-related asthma remain elusive. This study aimed to evaluate the effects
of adiponectin on airway inflammation and oxidative stress and to determine its
mechanism in obesity-related asthma. Male C57BL6/J mice fed with a high-fat diet 
to induce obesity were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin to induce asthma,
and treated with adiponectin (1 mg/kg) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)
inhibitor compound C (20 mg/kg) twice before the first ovalbumin challenge. We
found exogenous adiponectin significantly reduced airway resistance, inflammatory
infiltration in lung tissue, and cell counts in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.
Adiponectin inhibited great levels of eotaxin, myeloperoxidase, tumor necrosis
factor-α, 8‑hydroxy‑2'‑deoxyguanosine, and nitric oxide in obesity-related asthma
mice. Moreover, we found increased nuclear factor kappa B p65, inducible nitric
oxide synthase and B-cell lymphoma 2 protein expression were down-regulated with 
adiponectin administration. Additionally, adiponectin elevated the lower levels
of pAMPK and AMPK activity in lung tissue. These protective effects of
adiponectin were reversed after treatment with the AMPK inhibitor compound C.
Thus, we conclude that adiponectin alleviates exacerbation of airway inflammation
and oxidative stress in a murine model of obesity-related asthma partly through
AMPK signaling pathway.
EOF
Excessive consumption of high-fat fructose diet (HFFD) is associated with the
development of systemic insulin resistance (InsRes) and further progression into 
type-2 diabetes (T2DM). InsRes induced hippocampal insulin signaling has serious 
consequence on hampered sensorimotor, cognitive performance and long term
potentiation accompained to neuronal cell death in hippocampus. However,
short-term HFFD/Streptozotocin (STZ) mediated hippocampal InsRes and related
neurobehavioral alterations in adoloscents have not been reported. Therefore, we 
investigated a one-week HFFD model to augment the state of InsRes along with a
single sub-diabetogenic dose of STZ (45 mg/kg i.p) to produce a hampered
hippocampal insulin signaling associated with frank hyperglycemia and other
biochemical and neurobehavioral alterations in young rats. To achieve this, male 
wistar rats of age (8-10 weeks) and weight 80-120 g were divided into two main
groups: (1) fed with commercial standard normal fat diet (NFD: 6.5% kcal fat) and
(2) fed an in-house prepared high-fat diet [HFFD: 58% kcal fat] and 20%
high-fructose corn syrup in the distilled water. Our results showed an increase
in calorie intake, water intake, body weight and blood glucose levels. Further,
an increase in fasting serum insulin and Homeostasis Model Assessment-index
(HOMA-I) and oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was observed. Whereas, we
observed a decrease in hippocampal insulin signaling and translocation of glucose
transporter type 4 (GLUT4) to neuronal membrane. Further, HFFD/STZ mediated
oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation (LPO), decreased antioxidant levels,
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels and further activation of
increase caspase-3 was observed. These battery of events indicate biochemical
alterations in hippocampus resulting in cognition and memory deficit.
EOF
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a rapidly growing cause of chronic liver
damage, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). How fatty liver
pathogenesis is subject to epigenetic regulation is unknown. We hypothesized that
chromatin remodeling is important for the pathogenesis of fatty liver disease.
ARID1A, a DNA-binding component of the SWI/SNF ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling
complex, contributes to nucleosome repositioning and access by transcriptional
regulators. Liver-specific deletion of Arid1a (Arid1a LKO) caused the development
of age-dependent fatty liver disease in mice. Transcriptome analysis revealed
upregulation of lipogenesis and down-regulation of fatty acid oxidation genes. As
evidence of direct regulation, ARID1A demonstrated direct binding to the
promoters of many of these differentially regulated genes. Additionally, Arid1a
LKO mice were more susceptible to high-fat diet-induced liver steatosis and
fibrosis. We deleted Pten in combination with Arid1a to synergistically drive
fatty liver progression. Inhibition of lipogenesis using CAT-2003, a potent SREBP
inhibitor, mediated improvements in markers of fatty liver disease progression in
this Arid1a/Pten double knockout model. CONCLUSION: ARID1A plays a role in the
epigenetic regulation of hepatic lipid homeostasis, and its suppression
contributes to fatty liver pathogenesis. Combined Arid1a and Pten deletion shows 
accelerated fatty liver disease progression and is a useful mouse model for
studying new therapeutic strategies for NASH. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Background: Metabolic syndrome (MS) is known to be associated with hypertension, 
insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia, and it raises the risk for cardiovascular
diseases and diabetes mellitus. Telmisartan is used in clinic as an angiotensin
II receptor blocker and it is also identified as activating peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors δ (PPARδ). Activation of PPARδ produced
beneficial effects on fatty acid metabolism and glucose metabolism. This study
aims to investigate the effects of telmisartan on the modulation of MS in rats
fed a high-fat/high-sodium diet.
Methods: Rats were fed with a high-fat/high-sodium diet and received injections
of streptozotocin at low dose to induce MS. Then, rats with MS were treated with 
telmisartan. The weight, glucose tolerance, and insulin sensitivity were
measured. The lipid profiles were also obtained. The weights of retroperitoneal
and epididymal fat pads were determined. The role of PPARδ in telmisartan
treatment was identified in rats pretreated with the specific antagonist GSK0660.
Results: The results showed that telmisartan, but not losartan, significantly
reduced plasma glucose and plasma insulin, and improved insulin resistance in
rats with MS. Telmisartan also decreased blood pressure and lipids more
significantly than losartan. Moreover, GSK0660 effectively reversed the effects
of telmisartan in the MS rats. In the MS group, telmisartan activated PPARδ to
enhance the levels of phosphorylated GLUT4 in muscle or the expression of
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) in the liver, which was also abolished 
by GSK0660. Telmisartan is useful to ameliorate hypertension and insulin
resistance in rats with MS. Telmisartan improves the insulin resistance through
increased expression of GLUT4 and down-regulation of PEPCK via PPARδ-dependent
mechanisms.
Conclusion: Telmisartan has been proven to ameliorate MS, particularly in the
prediabetes state. Therefore, telmisartan is suitable to develop for the
management of MS in clinics.
EOF
Background: The prevalence of obesity is growing rapidly and has become a global 
problem that increases the risk for many diseases. It is influenced by many
factors, including consumption of the Western-style diet, characterized as a
high-fat diet. Within the central nervous system, the hypothalamus is a critical 
site in maintaining energy homeostasis and sensing nutrient status, including
palmitate, the major component of high-fat-diet.
Methods: In the present study, we conducted a variety of studies to investigate
the specific role of salubrinal on palmitate-induced hypothalamic cell death,
leptin signaling, and ER stress in an embryonic hypothalamic cell line.
Experiments were also performed to identify the underlying mechanisms of the
protective effect of salubrinal.
Results: Our results indicate that salubrinal protects hypothalamic cells against
PA-induced ER stress and improves hypothalamic leptin sensitivity.
Conclusion: Taken together, our findings conclusively reveal that salubrinal
abrogates palmitate-induced hypothalamic leptin resistance and ER stress via
NF-κB pathway.
EOF
Erythropoietin (EPO) has been reported to exert a beneficial effect on glucose
metabolism in obesity. However, the effect of EPO on lipid metabolism and
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) was unclear. Furthermore, the effect of
long acting erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESA) on metabolism has not been
poorly understood. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of
EPO and long acting ESA on NAFLD and lipid metabolism. We administered EPO and
darbepoetin alpha (DEPO), a long acting ESA, by intraperitoneally injection for 4
weeks to mice with high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced obesity. EPO and DEPO treatment
reduced body weight, ameliorated glucose tolerance and insulin resistance, and
prevented lipid accumulation in liver and white adipose tissue (WAT).
Administration of EPO and DEPO suppressed lipid synthesis-related protein in
liver, including sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1),
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC1) and fatty acid synthase (FAS). EPO and DEPO also
increased lipolysis protein in visceral WAT, including hormone-sensitive lipase
(HSL), atni-adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL). EPO and DEPO increased
phosphorylation signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and
STAT5, transcriptional factors with crucial roles of lipid metabolism. These data
suggest that EPO and DEPO ameliorated NAFLD by improving lipid metabolism via
EPO/EPOR-induced STAT3 and STAT5 activation. EPO and DEPO may be a therapeutic
option for NAFLD.
EOF
Zebrafish of different strains with 5 dpf (5 days post-fertilization) were
selected and fed with 0.2% high-fat diet for 8 h and 3% glucose solution for 16
halternatively during the day and night for 4 consecutive days. The zebrafish
model was established and randomly divided into model group, Huangdi Anxiao
Capsules (260 mg·L⁻¹) group and pioglitazone (32 mg·L⁻¹) group. The drug
treatment groups were given the water-soluble drugs, with a volume of 25 mL, and 
incubated in a 28 °C incubator for 4 days. To detect the exposure to the
corresponding drugs, the normal control group was set up. Thirty zebrafish were
included in each group. The effect of Huangdi Anxiao Capsules on vascular wall
thickness, fluorescence intensity of islet beta cells, fluorescence intensity of 
macrophages, and blood flow velocity of zebrafish were detected. The expressions 
of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegfaa) and angiotensin converting enzyme 
(ACE) were detected by RT-PCR. The results showed that compared with the model
group, Huangdi Anxiao Capsules can significantly reduce the thickness of the
blood vessel wall, increase the fluorescence intensity of islet β cells and
macrophages, increase the blood flow velocity in vivo, and decrease the ACE and
vegfaa expressions in zebrafish. It is suggested that Huangdi Anxiao Capsules may
alleviate zebrafish vascular lesions by regulating the expressions of ACE and
vegfaa.
EOF
The aim of this paper was to study the curative effect of Huotan Jiedu Tongluo
(HTJDTL) decoction on a rabbit model with early atherosclerosis (AS),and
furtherly to explore whether it could inhibit the BH4/eNOS uncoupling ROS or not.
Twenty-four Japanese white rabbits were randomly divided into sham operation
group, model group, HTJDTL decoction group and atorvastatin group. Rabbit models 
with early atherosclerosis were established by high fat diet, nitrogen drying and
carotid artery balloon injury. The rabbits were sacrificed at 7th days after
balloon injury and several parameters were measured. The pathological morphology 
of the common carotid artery was observed by HE staining. The blood lipids were
detected by peroxidase method. The ratio of vascular eNOS dimer and monomer was
measured by Western blot. The ELISA and biochemical technology were respectively 
used for testing BH4 and ROS levels in serum. The results showed that compared
with the sham operation group, the model group had mild stenosis of the common
carotid artery lumen, uneven intimal hyperplasia, lipid deposition in the intima 
and media, and obvious hyperplasia of the adventitia with inflammatory cell
infiltration. The HTJDTL decoction could significantly inhibit the intimal
hyperplasia compared with the model group, meanwhile, reduce the lipid deposition
of the media and the infiltration of the adventitial cells. Compared with the
sham operation group, the blood lipids and ROS of the model animals significantly
increased, but BH4 and the ratio of eNOS dimer/monomer decreased. Compared with
the model group, HTJDTL decoction significantly reduced the TC, ox-LDL and ROS
levels, and also up-regulated eNOS dimer/monomer ratio, but it increased BH4
trend without statistical difference. According to the results, it was found that
HTJDTL decoction couldsignificantly prevent and improve the vascular remodeling
of rabbits model with early atherosclerosis. The mechanism of decoction may
largely be related to the inhibition of BH4/eNOS uncoupling and the reduction of 
oxidative stress.
EOF
Despite the edible fungus Amillariella mellea possessing a variety of biological 
activities, its effects on diabetes are still unclear. Polysaccharides are the
main bioactive ingredients. In order to destroy the cell wall to obtain more
polysaccharides, we used NaOH solution to extract Amillariella mellea fruiting
bodies. The alkali extraction (AAMP) was identified as a polysaccharide-enriched 
fraction. Using type 2 diabetic rats induced by co-treatment of a high fat diet
(HFD) and dexamethasone (DEX), we evaluated the hypoglycemic effects of AAMP. The
results showed that oral administration of a high dose of AAMP markedly lowered
fasting blood glucose, improving glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. AAMP
also enhanced the level of LPL and the expressions of two critical lipases ATGL
and HSL, leading to a decrease of serum triglyceride. In addition, AAMP
specifically suppressed the expression of SREBP-1c, resulting in AAMP observably 
inhibiting lipid accumulation in the liver. These findings demonstrated that the 
improvement of AAMP on HFD/DEX-induced insulin resistance was correlated with its
regulation of lipid metabolism. Our results indicated that AAMP could be a novel 
natural drug or health food used for the treatment of diabetes.
EOF
This study aimed to investigate the association between the muscle fitness to
visceral fat level (MVF) ratio and the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS)
and ideal cardiovascular health (CVH) metrics among college students. A total of 
1467 young adults recruited from the FUPRECOL study (Asociación de la Fuerza
Prensil con Manifestaciones Tempranas de Riesgo Cardiovascular en Jóvenes y
Adultos Colombianos), were categorized into four quartiles based on their MVF
ratio. Muscular fitness was assessed using a digital handgrip dynamometer and
visceral fat level was determined through bioelectrical impedance analysis. Ideal
CVH was assessed, including lifestyle characteristics, anthropometry, blood
pressure, and biochemical parameters. The body weight, waist circumference, body 
mass index (BMI), fat mass, fat mass index, and visceral fat level were
significantly higher in subjects in Q1 (lower MVF ratio) than those in Q2, Q3, or
Q4 (p < 0.001). The muscle fitness (handgrip and normalized grip strength (NGS)) 
of the subjects in Q4 was significantly greater than that of those in Q1 to Q2 (p
< 0.001). Subjects with a medium-high MVF ratio (i.e., 3⁻4th quartiles) had an
odds ratio of 2.103 of ideal CVH metrics after adjusting for age, gender,
university, and alcohol intake (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.832 to 2.414; p < 
0.001). A lower MVF ratio is associated with worse CVH metrics and a higher
prevalence of MetS in early adulthood, supporting the hypothesis that the MVF
ratio could be used as a complementary screening tool that could help clinicians 
identify young adults with unfavorable levels of CVH and metabolic risk.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which has a wide global distribution,
includes different stages ranging from simple steatosis to, nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH), advanced fibrosis, and liver cirrhosis according to the
degree of severity. Chronic low- grade inflammation, insulin resistance, and
lipid accumulation are the leading causes of NAFLD. To date, no effective
medicine for NAFLD has been approved by governmental agencies. Our study observed
that the expression of Dusp26 (dual-specificity phosphatase 26), a member of the 
Dusp protein family, was decreased in the liver tissue of mice with hepatic
steatosis and genetically obese (ob/ob) mice. In our study, hepatic steatosis,
inflammatory responses and insulin resistance were exacerbated in liver-specific 
Dusp26-knockout (KO) mice but ameliorated in liver-specific Dusp26-transgenic
mice induced by a high-fat diet (HFD). In addition, the degree of liver fibrosis 
was aggravated in high-fat high-cholesterol diet (HFHC)-induced Dusp26-KO mice.
We further found that the binding of Dusp26 to TAK1 to block the phosphorylation 
of TAK1 regulated the TAK1-p38/JNK signaling axis to alleviate hepatic steatosis 
and metabolic disturbance. Conclusions These findings suggest that Dusp26 is a
good TAK1-dependent therapeutic target for NAFLD. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
RATIONALE: Several studies have suggested a role for the gut microbiota in
inflammation and atherogenesis. A causal relation relationship between gut
microbiota, inflammation, and atherosclerosis has not been explored previously.
OBJECTIVE: Here, we investigated whether a proinflammatory microbiota from
Caspase1-/- ( Casp1-/-) mice accelerates atherogenesis in Ldlr-/- mice.
METHOD AND RESULTS: We treated female Ldlr-/- mice with antibiotics and
subsequently transplanted them with fecal microbiota from Casp1-/- mice based on 
a cohousing approach. Autologous transplantation of fecal microbiota of Ldlr-/-
mice served as control. Mice were cohoused for 8 or 13 weeks and fed chow or
high-fat cholesterol-rich diet. Fecal samples were collected, and factors related
to inflammation, metabolism, intestinal health, and atherosclerotic phenotypes
were measured. Unweighted Unifrac distances of 16S rDNA (ribosomal DNA) sequences
confirmed the introduction of the Casp1-/- and Ldlr-/- microbiota into Ldlr-/-
mice (referred to as Ldlr-/-( Casp1-/-) or Ldlr-/-( Ldlr-/-) mice). Analysis of
atherosclerotic lesion size in the aortic root demonstrated a significant 29%
increase in plaque size in 13-week high-fat cholesterol-fed Ldlr-/-( Casp1-/-)
mice compared with Ldlr-/-( Ldlr-/-) mice. We found increased numbers of
circulating monocytes and neutrophils and elevated proinflammatory cytokine
levels in plasma in high-fat cholesterol-fed Ldlr-/-( Casp1-/-) compared with
Ldlr-/-( Ldlr-/-) mice. Neutrophil accumulation in the aortic root of Ldlr-/-(
Casp1-/-) mice was enhanced compared with Ldlr-/-( Ldlr-/-) mice.
16S-rDNA-encoding sequence analysis in feces identified a significant reduction
in the short-chain fatty acid-producing taxonomies Akkermansia,
Christensenellaceae, Clostridium, and Odoribacter in Ldlr-/-( Casp1-/-) mice.
Consistent with these findings, cumulative concentrations of the
anti-inflammatory short-chain fatty acids propionate, acetate and butyrate in the
cecum were significantly reduced in 13-week high-fat cholesterol-fed Ldlr-/-(
Casp1-/-) compared with Ldlr-/-( Ldlr-/-) mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Introduction of the proinflammatory Casp1-/- microbiota into Ldlr-/-
mice enhances systemic inflammation and accelerates atherogenesis.
EOF
Preparations of the root bark of Tabernanthe iboga have long been used in Central
and West African traditional medicine to combat fatigue, as a neuro-stimulant in 
rituals, and for treatment of diabetes. The principal alkaloid of T. iboga,
ibogaine, has attracted attention in many countries around the world for
providing relief for opioid craving in drug addicts. Using a plant metabolomics
approach, we detected five phenolic compounds, including 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid,
and 30 alkaloids, seven of which were previously reported from T. iboga root
bark. Following a report that iboga extracts contain insulinotropic agents, we
aimed to determine the potential alleviating effects of the water extract of
iboga root bark on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperglycemia as well as its
effects on cognitive function in male C57BL/6J mice. Feeding a HFD to mice for 10
weeks produced manifestations of metabolic syndrome such as increased body weight
and increased plasma levels of glucose, triacylglycerols, total cholesterol,
LDL-cholesterol, insulin, leptin, and pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-6, MCP-1,
ICAM-1), as compared to mice fed a low-fat diet (LFD). Supplementation of HFD
with iboga extract at ibogaine doses of 0.83 (low) and 2.07 (high) mg/kg/day did 
not improve these HFD-induced metabolic effects except for a reduction of plasma 
MCP-1 in the low dose group, indicative of an anti-inflammatory effect. When the 
HFD mice were tested in the water maze, the high-dose iboga extract caused
hippocampus-dependent impairments in spatial learning and memory, as compared to 
mice receiving only a HFD.
EOF
PGC-1β is a transcriptional co-activator of nuclear receptors such as the
estrogen receptor-related receptor (ERR). Transgenic overexpression of PGC-1β in 
mice increases energy expenditure and suppresses high-fat diet-induced obesity.
In this study, we screened various food-derived and natural compounds using a
reporter assay system to measure the transcriptional activity of PGC-1β.
Soy-derived isoflavones, genistein and daidzein, and several resveratrols
activated PGC-1β. Genistein, daidzein, and trans-oxyresveratrol activated
ERR-responsive element-mediated reporter activity in the presence of PGC-1β.
Stable overexpression of PGC-1β in C2C12 myoblasts increased the expression of
medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD), an important enzyme in fatty acid
β-oxidation. Genistein and daidzein increased MCAD mRNA levels and mitochondrial 
content in PGC-1β-expressing C2C12 cells. These compounds activated ERR/PGC-1β
complex-mediated gene expression, and our findings may be a practical foundation 
for developing functional foods targeting obesity.
EOF
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women worldwide, and dietary
lipids are important environmental factors influencing its etiology. In this work
we present data in relation to the transcriptional effects of two high-fat diets,
one high in corn oil (HCO) and one high in extra-virgin olive oil (HOO),
administered from weaning or after induction, on 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene
(DMBA)-induced rat mammary tumors. Raw data were deposited at ArrayExpress under 
accession number E-MTAB-3541. We compared the gene expression profiles of the
mammary tumors from the high-fat diet groups with those from the control group,
finding different effects of diets depending on timing and type of dietary
intervention. Lists of differentially expressed genes were analyzed to find
overrepresented categories of biological significance. Here we provide
information about the cell functions categories overrepresented in significantly 
modulated genes by effect of the high-fat diets. Further investigations of such
functions are described in "A high corn oil diet strongly stimulates mammary
carcinogenesis, while a high extra virgin olive oil diet has a weak effect,
through changes in metabolism, immune system function, and
proliferation/apoptosis pathways" (Escrich et al., in press) [1].
EOF
Background and Aim: Individual lipid phenotypes including circulating total
cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), and triglycerides (TG) determinations are
influenced by gene-environment interactions. The aim of this study was to predict
blood lipid level (TC, LDL-c, HDL-c, and TG) variability using genetic and
lifestyle data in subjects with excessive body weight-for-height.
Methods: This cross-sectional study enrolled 304 unrelated overweight/obese
adults of self-reported European ancestry. A total of 95 single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) related to obesity and weight loss were analyzed by a
targeted next-generation sequencing system. Relevant genotypes of each SNP were
coded as 0 (nonrisk) and 1 (risk). Four genetic risk scores (GRS) for each lipid 
phenotype were calculated by adding the risk genotypes. Information concerning
lifestyle (diet, physical activity, alcohol drinking, and smoking) was obtained
using validated questionnaires. Total body fat (TFAT) and visceral fat (VFAT)
were determined by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.
Results: Overall, 45 obesity-related genetic variants were associated with some
of the studied blood lipids. In addition to conventional factors (age, sex,
dietary intakes, and alcohol consumption), the calculated GRS significantly
contributed to explain their corresponding plasma lipid trait. Thus, HDL-c, TG,
TC, and LDL-c serum concentrations were predicted by approximately 28%
(optimism-corrected adj. R 2 = 0.28), 25% (optimism-corrected adj. R 2 = 0.25),
24% (optimism-corrected adj. R 2 = 0.24), and 21% (optimism-corrected adj. R
2=0.21), respectively. Interestingly, GRS were the greatest contributors to TC
(squared partial correlation (PC2) = 0.18) and LDL-c (PC2 = 0.18) features.
Likewise, VFAT and GRS had a higher impact on HDL-c (PC2 = 0.09 and PC2 = 0.06,
respectively) and TG levels (PC2 = 0.20 and PC2 = 0.07, respectively) than the
rest of variables.
Conclusions: Besides known lifestyle influences, some obesity-related genetic
variants could help to predict blood lipid phenotypes.
EOF
The molecular mechanism revealing the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD), one of the most common liver diseases, remains to be
investigated. In the study, we found that secreted modular calcium-binding
protein 2 (SMOC2), which belongs to the secreted protein acidic and rich in
cysteine (SPARC) family of matricellular proteins, functioned as a positive
modulator of NAFLD. SMOC2 expression was markedly up-regulated in human liver
samples with NAFLD, and in hepatic tissues of mice fed with HFD. SMOC2 knockout
in mice significantly attenuated metabolic disorders, insulin resistance, glucose
intolerance and lipid deposition in mice challenged with HFD. Moreover, liver
fibrosis induced by HFD was clearly ameliorated by SMOC2 deficiency mainly
through inhibiting transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 expression. Additionally, 
hepatic inflammatory response triggered by HFD was also improved in
SMOC2-knockout mice via inactivating nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). Mechanically,
SMOC2 could interact with TGF-β1, and SMOC2 overexpression markedly increased
TGF-β1 in mouse primary hepatocytes, which played an essential role in regulating
hepatic steatosis. In conclusion, we provided proof that blocking SMOC2 might be 
a promising strategy for preventing NAFLD through the interaction with TGF-β1.
EOF
High-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic syndrome followed by chronic kidney disease
(CKD) have received extensive attention. However, the pathogenesis that
contributes to HFD-induced renal injury still remains unclear. Transmembrane
protein 126B (Tmem126b) is a complex I assembly factor, playing critical role in 
controlling important biological processes. In the study, we showed that Tmem126b
levels were increased in kidney of HFD-fed mice. Tmem126b knockout (KO)
attenuated metabolic disorders in mice challenged with HFD. Further, Tmem126b-KO 
mice showed alleviated kidney damage in response to HFD treatment.
Mechanistically, we suggested that in kidney of mice, the dyslipidemia,
apoptosis, and mitochondria dysfunction generated by HFD were prevented by
Tmem126b deletion via regulating the expression of associated signals. Further,
we demonstrated that HFD-induced renal inflammation was ameliorated by Tmem126b
knockout, as evidenced by the down-regulated expression of inflammatory factors, 
including tumor necrosis factor a (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β and monocyte
chemotactic protein (MCP)-1, which was through repressing nuclear factor kappa B 
(NF-κB) signaling pathways. Additionally, Tmem126b ablation repressed oxidative
stress in renal samples of HFD-fed mice partly by promoting nuclear
factor-erythroid 2 related factor-2 (Nrf-2) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1)
expression. The role of Tmem126b knockout in protecting against HFD-triggered
renal injury was verified in palmitate (PA)-incubated cells with Tmem126b
knockdown. Importantly, inhibiting Nrf-2 expression abolished Tmem126b
knockdown-alleviated lipid deposition, apoptosis, inflammation, ROS generation
and mitochondrial dysfunction. Collectively, our study identified Tmem126b as a
positive regulator for the progression of CKD induced by HFD through meditating
Nrf-2 expression.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) can go undiagnosed for years, leading to a
stage where produces complications such as delayed skin wound healing. Animal
models have been developed in the last decades to study the pathological
progression in this disease. Streptozotocin (STZ), that has a selective
pharmacological toxicity toward pancreatic β cells, in addition to high fat diet 
has been widely used to induce diabetes however no evidence has shown its effects
on the skin integrity.
METHODS: Eighteen C57BL/6J male mice, were divided in 3 groups; the first was fed
with chow diet and the second was kept on a high fat diet and the third injected 
with STZ intraperitoneal for 5 days consecutively before starting the diet
protocol with high fat. Mice were maintained 5 weeks in total.
RESULTS: We show that animals treated with STZ-high fat diet exhibit skin
injuries without significant alterations on basal insulin and triglycerides,
compared to the control. The skin from these animals presents higher levels of
oxidative stress, lower levels of adhesion proteins and alterations in lipid
mediators, effects that are not produced by the high fat diet itself.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that this in vivo model represents a relevant
approach for studying skin damage induced by diabetes.
EOF
Both high-fat diets (HFD) and bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental endocrine
disruptor, are prevalent in industrialized societies. Previous studies have
detected separate effects of BPA and HFD; however, none have assessed possible
interactive effects. Here, pregnant dams consumed 0, 40, or 400 µg BPA/kg/day and
were fed either a control (CON; 15.8% kcal fat) or HFD (45% kcal fat) from
gestational day 2 through parturition. The pups were individually dosed with BPA 
from postnatal days (P) 1-10, while the dams continued to consume one of the two 
diets. Maternal behavior increased with the HFD while the offspring's
periadolescent social play decreased with BPA, but no interactive effects were
observed. Neither HFD nor BPA exposure changed performance on a social
recognition task, and only BPA had an effect on the elevated plus maze. BPA
increased several cytokines in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of P10 males
but not females. Expression of several genes related to hormone synthesis and
receptors, inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in the mPFC on P10 and
P90 were altered due to BPA and/or HFD exposure with rare interactive effects.
BPA resulted in an increase in the gene expression of Esr1 in the mPFC of females
on both P10 and P90. Epigenetic analysis on P90 did not show a change in
methylation or in the levels of pre-mRNA or microRNA. Thus, perinatal BPA and HFD
have separate effects but rarely interact.
EOF
Long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 1 (ACSL1) plays a pivotal role in fatty acid
β‑oxidation in heart, adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. However, key functions 
of ACSL1 in the liver remain largely unknown. We investigated acute effects of
hepatic ACSL1 deficiency on lipid metabolism in adult mice under hyperlipidemic
and normolipidemic conditions. We knocked down hepatic ACSL1 expression using
adenovirus expressing a ACSL1 shRNA (Ad-shAcsl1) in mice fed a high-fat diet or a
normal chow diet. Hepatic ACSL1 depletion generated a hypercholesterolemic
phenotype in mice fed both diets with marked elevations of total cholesterol,
LDL-cholesterol and free cholesterol in circulation and accumulations of
cholesterol in the liver. Furthermore, SREBP2 pathway in ACSL1 depleted livers
was severely repressed with a 50% reduction of LDL receptor protein levels. In
contrast to the dysregulated cholesterol metabolism, serum triglycerides, free
fatty acid and phospholipid levels were unaffected. Mechanistic investigations of
genome-wide gene expression profiling and pathway analysis revealed that ACSL1
depletion repressed expressions of several key enzymes for bile acid
biosynthesis, consequently leading to reduced liver bile acid levels and altered 
bile acid compositions. These results are the first demonstration of a requisite 
role of ACSL1 in bile acid biosynthetic pathway in liver tissue. Furthermore, we 
discovered that Acsl1 is a novel molecular target of the bile acid-activated
farnesoid X receptor (FXR). Activation of FXR by agonist obeticholic acid
repressed the expression of ACSL1 protein and mRNA in the liver of FXR wild-type 
mice but not in FXR knockout mice.
EOF
Microglia are highly sensitive to dietary influence, becoming activated acutely
and long-term by high fat diet. However, their role in regulating satiety and
feeding in healthy individuals remains unclear. Here we show that microglia are
essential for the normal regulation of satiety and metabolism in rats. Short-term
microglial depletion in a Cx3cr1-Dtr rat led to a dramatic weight loss that was
largely accounted for by an acute reduction in food intake. This weight loss and 
anorexia were not likely due to a sickness response since the rats did not
display peripheral or central inflammation, withdrawal, anxiety-like behavior, or
nausea-associated pica. Hormonal and hypothalamic anatomical changes were largely
compensatory to the suppressed food intake, which occurred in association with
disruption of the gustatory circuitry at the paraventricular nucleus of the
thalamus. Thus, microglia are important in supporting normal feeding behaviors
and weight, and regulating preference for palatable food. Inhibiting this
circuitry is able to over-ride strong compensatory drives to eat, providing a
potential target for satiety control.
EOF
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a worldwide public health problem with an
estimated prevalence of 8.2%. This study reports glutathione deficiency, excess
oxidative stress, and altered vitamin D metabolism in the kidney of mice fed a
high-fat diet (HFD). The levels of GCLC and GCLM gene expression were
significantly downregulated and the protein carbonylation level, a hallmark of
oxidative damage, was significantly increased in the kidney of HFD-fed mice.
While the levels of VD-regulatory genes 1-alpha-hydroxylase (CYP27B1), VDR, and
RXRα were significantly downregulated in the kidney of mice fed a HFD, those of
24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1) were significantly elevated. In vitro, GSH deficiency
per se causes excess oxidative damage (protein carbonylation), and significantly 
decreases the levels of VD-regulatory genes (CYP27B1, VDR, and RXRα), but
increases levels of CYP24A1 in human renal proximal tubule epithelial cells
(RPTEC), similar to findings in the kidney of HFD-fed diabetic mice. L-cysteine
supplementation restores GSH and prevents oxidative damage in RPTEC. These
studies suggest a potential role of GSH precursor in reducing excess oxidative
stress and renal injury that commonly accompanies obesity/diabetes.
EOF
SCOPE: Sulforaphane (SFN) is reported to reduce the accumulation of lipids.
However, the underling mechanism remains unclear. In this study, the potential of
SFN to improve lipid metabolism is investigated through altering mitochondrial
function and biogenesis-related mechanisms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The abnormal lipid metabolism model was established both in 
HHL-5 cells and in rats by feeding a high-fat diet (HFD) for 10 weeks. The
current findings suggest that SFN alleviates the swelling of mitochondria and
stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis. The reduced expression of NRF1 and TFAM,
were reversed by SFN. SFN increases the levels of antioxidant compounds via
nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor (Nrf2) activation. Furthermore, SFN
improves multiple mitochondrial bioactivities, such as mitochondrial membrane
potential, ATP, and the electron transfer chain based on PGC-1α pathway. SFN also
activates lipolysis by transcriptionally upregulating adipose triglyceride lipase
(ATGL) and hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL).
CONCLUSIONS: SFN enhances utilization of lipids via both the PGC- 1α-dependent
promotion of mitochondrial biogenesis and Nrf2 dependent improvement of
mitochondrial function.
EOF
SCOPE: Naringenin is a citrus-derived flavonoid that has potent lipid-lowering
and insulin-sensitizing effects in obese mouse models of metabolic dysfunction.
However, in these models, a significant effect of naringenin supplementation is
the prevention of weight gain, which in itself can confer metabolic protection.
Therefore, in the present study, the effect of naringenin supplementation in
lean, chow-fed Ldlr-/- mice is investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In Ldlr-/- mice with isocaloric food consumption, treatment 
with naringenin for 8 weeks reduces body weight and adiposity compared to
littermate controls pair-fed the chow diet alone. Furthermore, naringenin
treatment reduces plasma lipids and enhances insulin sensitivity compared to
chow-fed controls. Metabolic cage studies reveal that naringenin-treated mice
have elevated energy expenditure with no change in ambulatory activity.
Additionally, naringenin-treated mice have an increased respiratory exchange
ratio and food consumption during the dark cycle. Treatment increases the
expression of fatty acid oxidation genes in liver, and increased
β-hydroxybutyrate concentrations in plasma, indicating that one mechanism through
which naringenin mediates metabolic improvement is enhanced hepatic fatty acid
oxidation.
CONCLUSIONS: These studies highlight the potential therapeutic utility of
naringenin and suggest that this flavonoid maintains potent metabolic properties 
in the absence of obesity or a high-fat diet.
EOF
NEW FINDINGS: What is the central question of this study? What are the temporal
responses of mitochondrial respiration and mitochondrial responsivity to insulin 
in soleus muscle fibres from mice during the development of obesity and insulin
resistance? What is the main finding and its importance? Short- and long-term
feeding with a high-fat diet markedly reduced soleus mitochondrial respiration
and mitochondrial responsivity to insulin before any change in glycogen
synthesis. Muscle glycogen synthesis and whole-body insulin resistance were
present after 14 and 28 days, respectively. Our findings highlight the plasticity
of mitochondria during the development of obesity and insulin resistance.
ABSTRACT: Recently, significant attention has been given to the role of muscle
mitochondrial function in the development of insulin resistance associated with
obesity. Our aim was to investigate temporal alterations in mitochondrial
respiration, H2 O2 emission and mitochondrial responsivity to insulin in
permeabilized skeletal muscle fibres during the development of obesity in mice.
Male Swiss mice (5-6 weeks old) were fed with a high-fat diet (60% calories from 
fat) or standard diet for 7, 14 or 28 days to induce obesity and insulin
resistance. Diet-induced obese (DIO) mice presented with reduced glucose
tolerance and hyperinsulinaemia after 7 days of high-fat diet. After 14 days, the
expected increase in muscle glycogen content after systemic injection of glucose 
and insulin was not observed in DIO mice. At 28 days, blood glucose decay after
insulin injection was significantly impaired. Complex I (pyruvate + malate) and
II (succinate)-linked respiration and oxidative phosphorylation (ADP) were
decreased after 7 days of high-fat diet and remained low in DIO mice after 14 and
28 days of treatment. Moreover, mitochondria from DIO mice were incapable of
increasing respiratory coupling and ADP responsivity after insulin stimulation in
all observed periods. Markers of mitochondrial content were reduced only after
28 days of treatment. The mitochondrial H2 O2 emission profile varied during the 
time course of DIO, with a reduction of H2 O2 emission in the early stages of DIO
and an increased emission after 28 days of treatment. Our data demonstrate that
DIO promotes transitory alterations in mitochondrial physiology during the early 
and late stages of insulin resistance related to obesity.
EOF
Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs), a type of endothelial cells with
unique morphology and function, play an important role in the liver hemostasis,
and LSECs dysfunction is involved in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD). Here, we employed Raman imaging and chemometric data analysis in
order to characterize the presence of lipid droplets (LDs) and their lipid
content in primary murine LSECs, in comparison with hepatocytes, isolated from
mice on high-fat diet. On NAFLD development, LDs content in LSECs changed toward 
more unsaturated lipids, and this response was associated with an increased
expression of stearylo-CoA desaturase-1. To the best of our knowledge, this is a 
first report characterizing LDs in LSECs, where their chemical composition is
analyzed along the progression of NAFLD at the level of single LD using Raman
imaging.
EOF
Effects of green macroalgae 55% ethanolic extract Enteromorpha prolifera through 
an ultrafiltration membrane of 3 kDa (EPE3k) on antidiabetic activity, gut
microbiota, and regulation mechanism were investigated in high-fat/high-sucrose
diet and streptozocin-induced diabetic mice. The structural characterizations of 
its major compounds in EPE3k were determined by ultra-performance liquid
chromatography-quadrupole/time of flight mass spectrometry. Furthermore, the
intestinal microflora modulation in diabetic mice was also investigated with
high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The proposed presence of polyphenols in
EPE3k was confirmed. EPE3k could significantly decrease the fasting blood glucose
and improve fasting glucose tolerance. The hypoglycemic effect of EPE3k was via
activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and suppression of c-Jun N-terminal
kinase in liver. EPE3k treatment significantly increased the relative abundance
of Akkermansia and decreased the proportion of Alistipes and Turicibacter. The
above results indicated that EPE3k could be provided as a new potential therapy
for the treatment of type 2 diabetic mellitus.
EOF
The phytochemical oxyresveratrol has been shown to exert diverse biological
activities including prevention of obesity. However, the exact reason underlying 
the anti-obese effects of oxyresveratrol is not fully understood. Here, we
investigated the effects and mechanism of oxyresveratrol in adipocytes and
high-fat diet (HFD)-fed obese mice. Oxyresveratrol suppressed lipid accumulation 
and expression of adipocyte markers during the adipocyte differentiation of
3T3-L1 and C3H10T1/2 cells. Administration of oxyresveratrol in HFD-fed obese
mice prevented body-weight gains, lowered adipose tissue weights, improved lipid 
profiles, and increased glucose tolerance. The anti-obese effects were linked to 
increases in energy expenditure and higher rectal temperatures without affecting 
food intake, fecal lipid content, and physical activity. The increased energy
expenditure by oxyresveratrol was concordant with the induction of thermogenic
genes including Ucp1, and the reduction of white adipocyte selective genes in
adipose tissue. Furthermore, Foxo3a was identified as an oxyresveratrol-induced
gene and it mimicked the effects of oxyresveratrol for induction of thermogenic
genes and suppression of white adipocyte selective genes, suggesting the role of 
Foxo3a in oxyresveratrol-mediated anti-obese effects. Taken together, these data 
show that oxyresveratrol increases energy expenditure through the induction of
thermogenic genes in adipose tissue and further implicates oxyresveratrol as an
ingredient and Foxo3a as a molecular target for the development of functional
foods in obesity and metabolic diseases.
EOF
Inula japonica Thunb. (Asteraceae) is a flowering plant that grows mainly in
Korea, Japan, and China and its flower extract has diverse biological effects
such as anti-inflammatory and antioxidative activities. However, the effects on
obesity and enhancement of endurance capacity have not been explored yet. This
study aims to reveal the effects of I. japonica flower ethanol extract (IJE) on
obesity and endurance capacity in high-fat diet (HFD) fed C57BL/6J mice and the
mechanism. IJE inhibited lipid accumulation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes in vitro. Also, 
IJE-fed mice showed reduced body weight gain, hepatic lipid, and body fat mass,
and increased muscle weight. IJE reduced lipid accumulation in the liver and
adipose tissue by decreasing lipogenic and adipogenic gene expression.
Additionally, consumption of low-dose IJE significantly enhanced endurance
capacity via increasing AMP-activated protein kinase activity and mRNA levels of 
Myh7 and Myh2. Luteolin and 1β-hydroxyalantolactone (1β-HA), compounds of IJE,
are involved in anti-adipogenesis in the 3T3-L cells and only luteolin increased 
the protein levels of MHC during C2C12 myoblast differentiation. Collectively,
our results suggest that consumption of IJE not only helps to prevent obesity but
also enhances endurance capacity reduced by HFD.
EOF
Evidence links consumed food portion size (FPS) and excess weight via increased
energy intake. Policies to regulate on-pack serving sizes may be needed;
determining consumed FPS of popular energy-dense foods for normal weight and
overweight or obese (OWOB) adults, as reported here, may provide evidence to
assist this. Data were analysed from national cross-sectional surveys, the French
Étude Individuelle Nationale des Consommations Alimentaires2 2005⁻2007 (n =
2117), and UK National Diet and Nutrition Survey 2008⁻2014 (n = 3413). The impact
of body mass index (BMI) on FPS is also investigated, adjusting for age, sex and 
under-reporting. Effects of under-reporting on relationships between FPS and BMI;
and BMI on consumption frequency (UK only) were explored. OWOB reported larger
FPS than normal-weight individuals in many, but not all food subgroups; however, 
there were only two significant FPS differences. In adjusted analyses, French
individuals consumed 1.0 g (99% CI 0.01⁻2.1 p = 0.01) greater FPS in cakes for 1 
point difference in BMI. 'Other cakes' and 'dark chocolate' were also
significantly positively associated with BMI. High-fat bar snacks, but no UK main
food groups, were positively associated with BMI. There was limited evidence of
links between FPS and BMI in UK and French national cross-sectional data,
possibly due to data limitations such as under-reporting. Future work should
explore this and relationships between consumed FPS and on-pack suggested serving
sizes to provide evidence to assist obesity-prevention policies.
EOF
Oxidative stress (OS) contributes to the neurological and cardio/pulmonary
effects caused by adverse metabolic states and air pollutants such as ozone (O₃).
This study explores the interactive effects of O₃ and diet (high-fructose (FRUC) 
or high⁻fat (FAT)) on OS in different rat brain regions. In acute exposure, there
was a decrease in markers of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in some
brain regions by diet and not by O₃. Total antioxidant substances (TAS) were
increased in the cerebellum (CER) and frontal cortex (FC) and decreased in the
striatum (STR) by both diets irrespective of O₃ exposure. Protein carbonyls (PC) 
and total aconitase decreased in some brain regions irrespective of exposure.
Following subacute exposure, an increase in markers of ROS was observed in both
diet groups. TAS was increased in the FC (FAT only) and there was a clear O₃
effect where TAS was increased in the FC and STR. Diet increased PC formation
within the CER in the FAT group, while the hippocampus showed a decrease in PC
after O₃ exposure in controls. In general, these results indicate that diet/O₃
did not have a global effect on brain OS parameters, but showed some brain
region- and OS parameter-specific effects by diets.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is highly prevalent worldwide. The most 
severe form is nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Among risk factors for the
development of NAFLD is excessive lipid intake. Since palm (P) oil is the most
consumed oil in the world, we aimed to investigate the effects of high-fat diets 
made with P oil, hybrid palm (HP) oil, or olive (O) oil in liver. Twenty-four
male mice (C57Bl/6J) were fed a high-fat diet (41% fat) containing P, HP, or O
oils for 8 weeks and compared to a control (C) group fed a chow diet. Adiposity
was measured with computed tomography. Body, adipose tissue, and liver weights,
as well as liver fat (Bligh⁻Dyer), blood lipid profile, glucose, and liver
enzymes were measured. Liver histology (hematoxylin⁻eosin) and transcriptome
(microarray-based) were performed. ANOVA tests with Newman⁻Keuls were used. Body 
weight was increased in the P group (p < 0.001) and body fat in the O group (C
vs. O p ≤ 0.01, P vs. O p ≤ 0.05, HP vs. O p ≤ 0.05). All high-fat diets
disturbed the blood lipid profile and glucose, with marked effects of HP on very 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL), triglycerides, and alkaline
phosphatase (p ≤ 0.001). HP had the highest liver fat (42.76 ± 1.58), followed by
P (33.94 ± 1.13). O had a fat amount comparable to C (16.46 ± 0.34, 14.71 ± 0.70,
respectively). P and HP oils induced hepatocyte ballooning. Transcriptome
alterations of the O group were related to amino acid metabolism and fatty acid
(FA) metabolism, the P group to calcium ion homeostasis, and HP oil to protein
localization. Both P and HP oils induced NASH in mice via disturbed hepatocyte
transcription. This raises concerns about the content of these oils in several
industrialized foods.
EOF
The aim of our study was to examine the effects of different dietary strategies, 
high-fat (HFd) or standard diet (Sd) alone or in combination with standardized
oral supplementation (0.45 mL/kg/day) of Aronia melanocarpa extract (SAE) in rats
with metabolic syndrome (MetS). SAE is an official product of pharmaceutical
company Pharmanova (Belgrade, Serbia); however, the procedure for extraction was 
done by EU-Chem company (Belgrade, Serbia). Rats were divided randomly into six
groups: control with Sd, control with Sd and SAE, MetS with HFd, MetS with HFd
and SAE, MetS with Sd and MetS with Sd and SAE during 4 weeks. At the end of the 
4-week protocol, cardiac function and liver morphology were assessed, while in
the blood samples glucose, insulin, iron levels and systemic redox state were
determined. Our results demonstrated that SAE had the ability to lower blood
pressure and exert benefits on in vivo and ex vivo heart function. Moreover, SAE 
improved glucose tolerance, attenuated pathological liver alterations and
oxidative stress present in MetS. Obtained beneficial effects of SAE were more
prominent in combination with changing dietary habits. Promising potential of SAE
supplementation alone or in combination with different dietary protocols in
triggering cardioprotection should be further examined in future.
EOF
Ample evidence from epidemiological studies has linked maternal obesity with
metabolic disorders such as obesity, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes in the 
next generation. Recently, it was also shown that maternal obesity has long-term 
effects on the progeny's central nervous system. However, very little is known
regarding how maternal overnutrition may affect, in particular, the cognitive
abilities of the offspring. We reported that first-generation offspring exposed
to a maternal high-fat diet (MHFD) displayed age-dependent cognitive deficits.
These deficits were associated with attenuations of amino acid levels in the
medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus regions of MHFD offspring. Here, we 
tested the hypothesis that MHFD in mice may induce long-term cognitive
impairments and neurochemical dysfunctions in the second and third generations.
We found that MHFD led to cognitive disabilities and an altered response to a
noncompetitive receptor antagonist of the N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)
receptor in adult MHFD offspring in both second and third generations in a
sex-specific manner. Our results suggest that maternal overnutrition leads to an 
increased risk of developing obesity in subsequent generations as well as to
cognitive impairments, affecting learning and memory processes in adulthood.
Furthermore, MHFD exposure may facilitate pathological brain aging which is not a
consequence of obesity. Our findings shed light on the long-term effects of
maternal overnutrition on the development of the central nervous system and the
underlying mechanisms which these traits relate to disease predisposition.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) are emerging as leading causes of liver disease worldwide.
Currently, no specific pharmacologic therapy is available for NAFLD/NASH, which
has been recognized as one of the major unmet medical needs of the 21st century. 
Our recent studies in genetic mouse models, human cell lines, and
well-characterized patient cohorts have identified serine/threonine protein
kinase (STK)25 as a critical regulator of hepatic lipid partitioning and
NAFLD/NASH. Here, we studied the metabolic benefit of liver-specific STK25
inhibitors on NAFLD development and progression in a mouse model of diet-induced 
obesity.
METHODS: We developed a hepatocyte-specific triantennary N-acetylgalactosamine
(GalNAc)-conjugated antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) targeting Stk25 and evaluated
its effect on NAFLD features in mice after chronic exposure to dietary lipids.
RESULTS: We found that systemic administration of hepatocyte-targeting
GalNAc-Stk25 ASO in obese mice effectively ameliorated steatosis, inflammatory
infiltration, hepatic stellate cell activation, nutritional fibrosis, and
hepatocellular damage in the liver compared with mice treated with
GalNAc-conjugated nontargeting ASO, without any systemic toxicity or local
tolerability concerns. We also observed protection against high-fat-diet-induced 
hepatic oxidative stress and improved mitochondrial function with Stk25 ASO
treatment in mice. Moreover, GalNAc-Stk25 ASO suppressed lipogenic gene
expression and acetyl-CoA carboxylase protein abundance in the liver, providing
insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying repression of hepatic steatosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides in vivo nonclinical proof-of-principle for the
metabolic benefit of liver-specific inhibition of STK25 in the context of obesity
and warrants future investigations to address the therapeutic potential of
GalNAc-Stk25 ASO in the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.
EOF
CONTEXT: Excessive adipose glucocorticoid action is associated with insulin
resistance, but the mechanisms linking adipose glucocorticoid action to insulin
resistance are still debated. We hypothesized that insulin resistance from excess
glucocorticoid action may be attributed in part to increased ectopic lipid
deposition in liver.
METHODS: We tested this hypothesis in the adipose specific 11β-Hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase-1 (HSD11B1) transgenic mouse, an established model of adipose
glucocorticoid excess. Tissue specific insulin action was assessed by
hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps, hepatic lipid content was measured, hepatic
insulin signaling was assessed by immunoblotting. The role of hepatic lipid
content was further probed by administration of the functionally liver-targeted
mitochondrial uncoupler, Controlled Release Mitochondrial Protonophore (CRMP).
FINDINGS: High fat diet fed HSD11B1 transgenic mice developed more severe hepatic
insulin resistance than littermate controls (endogenous suppression of hepatic
glucose production was reduced by 3.8-fold, P < 0.05); this was reflected by
decreased insulin-stimulated hepatic insulin receptor kinase tyrosine
phosphorylation and AKT serine phosphorylation. Hepatic insulin resistance was
associated with a 53% increase (P < 0.05) in hepatic triglyceride content, a 73% 
increase in diacylglycerol content (P < 0.01), and a 66% increase in PKCε
translocation (P < 0.05). Hepatic insulin resistance was prevented with
administration of CRMP by reversal of hepatic steatosis and prevention of hepatic
diacylglycerol accumulation and PKCε activation.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are consistent with excess adipose glucocorticoid
activity being a predisposing factor for the development of lipid
(diacylglycerol-PKCε)-induced hepatic insulin resistance.
EOF
The purpose of this study was to better understand the role obesity plays in the 
inflammatory response during sepsis, specifically regarding the Janus
kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway in
the liver. We hypothesized that inhibiting STAT3 would lead to an increase in the
inflammatory response and that obesity would amplify this effect. To investigate 
this, we inhibited STAT3 in two ways: pharmacological systemic inhibition and
genetic hepatic-specific inhibition. In pharmacological inhibition studies, male 
C57BL/6 mice were randomized to a high-fat (60% kcal fat) or normal (16% kcal
fat) diet for 6-7 wk and pretreated with Stattic before inducing sepsis by cecal 
ligation and puncture. In genetic inhibition studies, mice were randomized by
genotype before induction of sepsis. To investigate obesity in mice with
hepatic-specific STAT3 inhibition, we randomized mice to a high-fat or normal
diet as described above for 6 mo before induction of sepsis. Body composition was
analyzed using EchoMRI. We found that systemic STAT3 inhibition by Stattic
resulted in an increased inflammatory response and that obesity amplified this
effect. We also found that genetically inhibiting STAT3 in the liver resulted in 
higher mortality, increased inflammation, and liver injury. High-fat-fed mice
with hepatic STAT3 inhibition gained more weight and had more fat than control
mice on the same diet, and obesity increased neutrophil infiltration to the liver
of these mice during sepsis. In conclusion, STAT3 plays an important regulatory
role in the inflammatory response during sepsis, and obesity contributes to the
dysregulated response observed when STAT3 is inhibited.
EOF
The possibility that recruitment and activation of brown adipose tissue (BAT)
thermogenesis could be beneficial for curtailing obesity development in humans
prompts a need for a better understanding of the control of these processes (that
are often referred to collectively as diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT)). Dietary 
conditions are associated with large changes in blood-borne factors that could be
responsible for BAT recruitment, but BAT is also innervated by the sympathetic
nervous system. To examine the significance of the innervation for DIT
recruitment, we surgically denervated the interscapular BAT depot in mice and
exposed the mice at thermoneutrality to a high-fat diet versus a chow diet.
Denervation lead to an alteration in feeding pattern but did not lead to enhanced
obesity, but obesity was achieved with a lower food intake, as denervation
increased metabolic efficiency. Conclusively, denervation totally abolished the
diet-induced increase in total UCP1 protein levels observed in the intact mice,
while basal UCP1 expression was not dependent on innervation. The denervation of 
interscapular BAT did not discernably hyper-recruit other BAT depots, and no UCP1
protein could be detected in the principally browning-competent inguinal white
adipose tissue depot under any of the examined conditions. We conclude that
intact innervation is essential for diet-induced thermogenesis and that
circulating factors cannot in themselves initiate recruitment of brown adipose
tissue under obesogenic conditions. The processes that link food intake and
energy storage to activation of the nervous system are therefore those of
significance for the further understanding of diet-induced thermogenesis.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Depletion of macrophages is thought to be a therapeutic option for
obesity-induced inflammation and metabolic dysfunction. However, whether the
therapeutic effect is a direct result of reduced macrophage-derived inflammation 
or secondary to decreases in fat mass is controversial as macrophage depletion
has been shown to disrupt energy homeostasis. This study was designed to
determine if macrophage depletion via clodronate-liposome (CLD) treatment could
serve as an effective intervention to reduce obesity-driven inflammatory and
metabolic impairments independent of changes in energy intake.
METHODS: Following 16 weeks of high-fat diet (HFD) or AIN-76A control diet (LFD) 
(n=30/diet treatment), male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to either a CLD or
PBS-liposome-treatment (n=15/group) for 4 weeks. PBS-liposome-treated groups were
pair-fed to their CLD-treated dietary counterparts. Metabolic function was
assessed pre- and post- liposome treatment. Adipose tissue as well as liver were 
investigated for macrophage infiltration and the presence of inflammatory
mediators. Additionally, a complete blood count was performed.
RESULTS: CLD treatment reduced energy intake. When controlling for energy intake,
CLD treatment was unable to rescue metabolic dysfunction or
Non-Alcoholic-Fatty-Liver Disease development, and impaired adipose tissue
insulin action. Moreover, CLD treatment induced neutrophilia, anemia, increased
adipose tissue mRNA expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-6 and IL-1β,
and augmented circulating IL-6 and MCP-1 concentrations (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that the use of CLD treatment to deplete
macrophages attenuates obesity by limiting energy intake. Moreover, after
controlling for the benefits of weight loss, the accompanying detrimental side
effects limit CLD treatment as an effective therapeutic strategy.
EOF
SCOPE: To investigate the effects of calcium status in early life on adult body
weight and the underlying mechanisms involved in gut microbiota and related lipid
metabolism.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Three to four-week-old C57BL/6J female mice were fed diets
with normal, insufficient, and excessive calcium respectively throughout
pregnancy and lactation. The weaning male pups were fed with a high-fat diet for 
16 weeks, with a normal-fat diet to the normal calcium group as control. The
offspring fecal microbiota was analyzed by 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing,
and mRNA expressions of genes were determined by the real-time RT-PCR. Maternal
insufficient or excessive calcium intake exacerbated offspring obesity, with
expressional changes in the Fasn, Acc1, LPL, Fiaf, and PPAR-α genes in the liver 
or fat. The dysbiosis in gut microbiota in obese offspring was exacerbated by
maternal imbalanced calcium intake, with increased Firmicutes and decreased
Bacteroidetes in calcium insufficiency, and decreased Verrucomicrobia in calcium 
excess. Several genera, including Bacteroides, were reduced, and Lachnospiraceae 
and Lactobacillus were increased by maternal insufficient or excessive calcium
intake.
CONCLUSION: Imbalance in maternal calcium intake promotes body weight gain in
offspring, which may be mediated by calcium's modulation on the gut microbiota
and lipid metabolism.
EOF
Metallothionein is well known for its detoxificant and anti-oxidant properties
and has been shown to be effective to prevent hydroxyl radical-generated DNA
degradation. The purpose of this investigation was to analyze the combined effect
of two factors promoting cellular oxidative-stress, that is, the administration
of the pesticide dichloro-diphenyl-dichloroethylene (DDE) and a high fat diet, on
metallothionein expression and synthesis in rat liver and kidney. DDE is the main
metabolite of dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane (DDT), and is commonly found in
the food chain and in all tissues of living organisms, carried by the fats. Male 
Wistar rats were fed with a standard (N) or a high fat (HF) diet and exposed to
DDE (10 mg/kg body mass, N + DDE and HF + DDE groups) or vehicle (corn oil, N,
and HF groups) via gavage every day for 28 days. Tissues histology was determined
by light microscopy analysis; differences in metallothionein gene expression and 
synthesis by real-time PCR and western blot, respectively. Finally, protein
cellular localization was established by immunocytochemistry. The results showed 
a different involvement of metallothionein in defending tissues from HF- and
DDE-induced oxidative stress, suggesting that hepatic and renal cells use
different strategies against pro-oxidant species. In both cell types a marked
increase in the metallothionein content was observed in the nucleus, with a
concomitant drop of the cytoplasmatic protein, either under HF- and DDE-stress
conditions; however, no synergistic or additive effects were observed between the
action of fats and pesticide. These findings reinforce the role of
metallothionein in protecting DNA from oxidative damage.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: Sodium-dependent glucose transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors such as
dapagliflozin induce weight loss, but the mechanism is thought to involve loss of
both body fat and skeletal muscle mass. The decrease in skeletal muscle mass may 
lead to worsening of insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes patients. On the other
hand, formula diet (FD) is a low-calorie food containing low carbohydrates, low
fat, and sufficient protein, vitamins, and minerals to support a healthy and
balanced diet, and is used for the treatment of obesity or diabetes. Therefore,
we examine whether the protein supplementation is superior to the fat
supplementation in metabolic improvement of the poorly controlled type 2 diabetes
patients treated with SGLT2 inhibitor. We compare the therapeutic effects using
two types of FD; a high protein FD and a high fat FD. Patients are prescribed
dapagliflozin and replacement of one of three meals with FD. We compare high
protein FD and high fat FD with respect to improvement of glycemic control while 
maintaining skeletal muscle mass.
METHODS: We conduct a prospective, multicenter, double-blinded, randomized,
controlled, investigator-initiated clinical trial. Patients who satisfy the
eligibility criteria will be randomized to two groups (1:1) and prescribed 5 mg
of dapagliflozin once daily together with a high protein FD or high fat FD (same 
number of calories) to replace one of three meals a day (one meal with FD only
and two normal meals). The observation period for both groups is 24 weeks. The
primary endpoint is the change in HbA1c.
PLANNED OUTCOMES: This study is ongoing and scheduled to complete in June 2019.
The findings of this study will be disseminated through peer-reviewed
publications and conference presentations.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: University Hospital Medical Information Network (UMIN)
000024580.
FUNDING: This study was carried out under contract with the specified nonprofit
corporation Hokkaido Institute of Health Sciences, based on a grant from
AstraZeneca Co., Ltd. and Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for an
investigator-initiated clinical trial. The authors funded the journals article
processing charges.
EOF
Objective: Retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) transports vitamin A (Retinol) in the
blood and contributes mechanistically to the linkage between obesity, insulin
resistance and associated comorbidities including type 2 diabetes mellitus,
coronary artery and neoplastic diseases. Circulating RBP4 levels have variably
been associated with body mass and gender differences. Many of these differences 
have been demonstrated after limited dietary interventions, and/or at single
unique time points. This study investigated the impact of sex and age as biologic
variables as well as high versus low fat diets on development of obesity, RBP4
levels and insulin resistance in C57BL/6J mice.
Methods: Male and female C57BL/6J mice were fed for 400 days with either low or
high fat diets. Female mice were also evaluated on same diets after ovariectomy
or sham ovariectomy. Mice were monitored for changes in weight, circulating
levels RBP4, glucose and insulin at 100-day intervals and also by 2-hour glucose 
tolerance tests.
Results: All mice on low or high fat diets gained weight. Mice on high fat diets 
showed significantly greater weight gain than those on low fat. Male mice showed 
significantly greater weight gain compared with females on corresponding diet.
Male mice compared with females already showed significantly higher RBP4 levels
even before starting diets. Sex differences were maintained for more than 1 year.
Gender differences in RBP4 were associated with significant differences in
development of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance.
Conclusions: Male compared with female C57BL/6J mice show significant gender
differences in circulating RBP4 levels from 6 weeks of age, extending more than
1 year. Gender differences in RBP4 may be mechanistically associated with
protection against glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. Targeting RBP4
pathways could be useful to disrupt gender differences in insulin resistance and 
disparities in comorbidities.
EOF
The manipulation of bile acid (BA) homeostasis by blocking the ileal apical
Na+-dependent bile salt transporter (ASBT/SLC10A2) may have therapeutic effects
in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. We developed a novel ASBT inhibitor, an
N-(3,4-o-dichlorophenyl)-2-(3-trifluoromethoxy) benzamide derivative referred to 
as IMB17-15, and investigated its therapeutic effects and the molecular
mechanisms underlying the effects. Syrian golden hamsters were challenged with
high-fat diet (HFD) to induce NAFLD and were subsequently administered 400 mg/kg 
IMB17-15 by gavage daily for 21 days. Serum, liver, and fecal samples were
collected for further analysis. Plasma concentration-time profiles of IMB17-15
were also constructed. The human hepatocyte cell line HL-7702 was treated with
Oleic acid (OA) with or without IMB17-15. Western blotting and real-time PCR were
used to study the molecular mechanisms of IMB17-15. We found that IMB17-15
inhibited ASBT and subsequently suppressed ileal farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and
FXR-activated fibroblast growth factor15/19 (FGF15/19) expression, which reduced 
the hepatic phosphorylated extracellular regulated protein kinase (ERK) and c-Jun
N-terminal kinase (JNK) levels and upregulated the cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase
(CYP7A1) activity. Additionally, IMB17-15 stimulated adenosine monophosphate
(AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPKα) phosphorylation and enhanced peroxisome
proliferator activated receptor α (PPARα) expression and thus promoted
triglyceride (TG) oxidation and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c)
metabolism through an ASBT-independent mechanism. In conclusion, a novel ASBT
inhibitor known as IMB17-15 protected hamsters against HFD-induced NFALD by
manipulating BA and lipid homeostasis. IMB17-15 also reduced lipid deposition in 
human hepatic cell lines, indicating that it may be useful as a therapy for NAFLD
patients.
EOF
Obesity is a major risk for patients with chronic metabolic disorders including
type 2 diabetes. Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a morphogen that regulates the pancreas 
and adipose tissue formation during embryonic development. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) is a member of the nuclear receptor
superfamily and one of the most important regulators of insulin action.Here, we
evaluated the role and mechanism of Shh signaling in obesity-associated insulin
resistance and characterized its effect on PPARγ. We showed that Shh expression
was upregulated in subcutaneous fat from obese mice. In differentiated 3T3-L1 and
primary cultured adipocytes from rats, recombinant Shh protein and SAG (an
agonist of Shh signaling) activated an extracellular signal-regulated kinase
(ERK)-dependent noncanonical pathway and induced PPARγ phosphorylation at serine 
112, which decreased PPARγ activity. Meanwhile, Shh signaling degraded PPARgγ
developmentally down-regulated protein 4-1 (NEDD4-1). Furthermore, vismodegib, an
inhibitor of Shh signaling, attenuated ERK phosphorylation induced by a high-fat 
diet (HFD) and restored PPARγ protein level, thus ameliorating glucose
intolerance and insulin resistance in obese mice.Our finding suggests that Shh in
subcutaneous fat decreases PPARγ activity and stability via activation of an
ERK-dependent noncanonical pathway, resulting in impaired insulin action.
Inhibition of Shh may serve as a potential therapeutic approach to treat
obesity-related diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Dietary polyphenols have beneficial effects on glucose/lipid
metabolism in subjects at high risk to develop type 2 diabetes; however, the
underlying mechanisms are not clear. We aimed to evaluate: 1) the acute effects
of the consumption of a drink rich in polyphenols from red grape pomace (RGPD) on
glucose/insulin and triglyceride responses to a standard meal in healthy
individuals, and, 2) the relationship between plasma levels of phenolic
metabolites and metabolic parameters.
METHODS: Twelve healthy men, aged 20-40 years participated in a randomized,
controlled study according to a cross-over design. After a 3-day low-polyphenol
diet, all participants consumed, on two different days and separated by a one
week interval, after an overnight fast, a drink rich in polyphenols (1.562 g
gallic acid equivalents (GAE)) or a control drink (CD, no polyphenols), followed 
after 3 h by a standard meal (960 kcal, 18% protein, 30% fat, 52% CHO). Blood
samples were taken at fasting, 3 h after the drink, over 5 h after the standard
meal and at fasting on the next day to measure plasma concentrations of glucose, 
insulin, triglyceride and phenolic metabolites.
RESULTS: Glycemic and triglyceride post-meal responses were similar after both
the RGPD and the control drink. In contrast, postprandial insulin incremental
area (iAUC0-5h) was 31% lower (p < 0.05), insulin secretion index was 18% lower
(p < 0.016) and insulin sensitivity (SI) index was 36% higher (p = 0.037) after
the RGPD compared to CD. Among phenolic metabolites, gallic acid correlated
inversely with the insulin response (r = -0.604; p = 0.032) and positively with
the SI index (r = 0.588, p = 0.037).
CONCLUSIONS: RGPD consumption acutely reduced postprandial insulin levels and
improved insulin sensitivity. This effect could be likely related to the increase
in gallic acid levels. This drink, added to usual diet, could contribute to
increase the daily intake of polyphenols, with potential health benefits.
EOF
A girl, aged 1 year and 9 months, was found to have hypertriglyceridemia in the
neonatal period, with unusual facies and signs of dark skin all over the body,
disappearance of subcutaneous adipose, acanthosis nigricans of the neck,
excessive and thick hair, empty cheeks, muscle hypertrophy of the extremities,
hepatomegaly, and neutrophil deficiency. Whole exome sequencing of monogenic
disorder revealed a homozygote mutation in the BSCL2 gene, c.974 (exon 7)_c.975
(exon 7) insG. Her parents were heterozygotes for this locus. The girl was
diagnosed with congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL), but the association
between CGL and neutrophil deficiency remained unclear. Triglyceride was
maintained at a normal level after the treatment with a low-fat and
high-carbohydrate diet, and there were no obvious changes in signs. CGL is a rare
autosomal recessive systemic disease manifested as disappearance of systemic
subcutaneous adipose, muscle hypertrophy of the extremities, and metabolic
disorders in the neonatal period, such as high triglycerides, hyperinsulinemia,
and hyperglycemia. About 95% of CGL cases are caused by mutations in the AGPAT2
or BSCL2 gene.
EOF
Obesity is one of the most important risk factors for chronic metabolic
disorders. Molecular mechanisms underlying obesity-related metabolic disorders
have not been completely elucidated. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors 
(PPARs) are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and are key metabolic
regulators of the whole-body energy metabolism. Certain enzymes involved in
carbohydrate and lipid metabolism are directly regulated by PPARs via their
interaction with specific response elements in their gene promoters. Many food
factors act as ligands of PPARs and regulate carbohydrate and lipid metabolism by
regulating the activities of these nuclear receptors, leading to the attenuation 
of obesity-related metabolic disorders. In this review, we describe our current
knowledge of the role of PPARs in the regulation of whole-body energy metabolism 
and several examples of food factors that act as ligands of PPARs, which may be
useful in the management of obesity and the accompanying energy metabolism
abnormalities. Abbreviations: WAT: white adipose tissue; PPAR: Peroxisome
proliferators-activated receptor; RXR: retinoid X receptors; mTORC1: mechanistic 
target of rapamycin complex 1; PPRE: PPAR-responsive regulatory elements; NAFLD: 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease; LPL: lipoprotein lipase; FGF21: fibroblast
growth factor 21; BAT: brown adipose tissue; UCP1: uncoupling protein 1;
LPC(16:0): 1-palmitoyl lysophosphatidylcholine; C/EBP: CCAAT-enhancer binding
proteins; STAT5A: signal transduction and activator of transcription 5A; APO
apolipoptotein; CBP: cAMP response element-binding protein-binding protein;
PGC1A: PPARγ coactivator protein 1a; HFD: high-fat diet; TG: triglyceride; VLDL: 
very low density lipoprotein; HDL: high density lipoprotein.
EOF
Isoquercetin (IQ), a glucoside derivative of quercetin, has been reported to have
beneficial effects in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, we
investigated the potential improvement of IQ in liver lipid accumulation,
inflammation, oxidative condition, and activation in Kupffer cells (KCs) on a
high-fat diet (HFD) induced NAFLD models. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were
induced by HFD, lipopolysaccharides/free fatty acids (LPS/FFA) induced co-culture
cells model between primary hepatocytes and Kupffer cells was used to test the
effects and the underlying mechanism of IQ. Molecular docking was performed to
predict the potential target of IQ. Significant effects of IQ were found on
reduced lipid accumulation, inflammation, and oxidative stress. In addition,
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway was activated by IQ, and is plays an 
important role in lipid regulation. Meanwhile, IQ reversed the increase of
activated KCs which caused by lipid overload, and also suppression of
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling by TGF-β Recptor-1 and SMAD2/3 
signaling. Finally, TGF-βR1 and TGF-βR2 were both found may involve in the
mechanism of IQ. IQ can improve hepatic lipid accumulation and decrease
inflammation and oxidative stress by its activating AMPK pathway and suppressing 
TGF-β signaling to alleviate NAFLD.
EOF
Breast cancer is the most diagnosed cancer in women worldwide. Studies regarding 
complex breast cancer aetiology are limited and the results are inconclusive. We 
investigated the associations between dietary patterns (DPs), metabolic-hormone
profiles (M-HPs), and breast cancer risk. This case-control study involved 420
women aged 40⁻79 years from north-eastern Poland, including 190 newly-diagnosed
breast cancer cases. The serum concentration of lipid components, glucose, and
hormones (oestradiol, progesterone, testosterone, prolactin, cortisol, insulin)
was marked in 129 post-menopausal women (82 controls, 47 cases). The food
frequency consumption was collected using a validated 62-item food frequency
questionnaire. A posteriori DPs or M-HPs were derived with a Principal Component 
Analysis (PCA). Three DPs: 'Non-Healthy', 'Prudent', and 'Margarine and Sweetened
Dairy' and two M-HPs: 'Metabolic-Syndrome' and 'High-Hormone' were identified.
The 'Polish-adapted Mediterranean Diet' ('Polish-aMED') score was calculated. The
risk of breast cancer risk was three-times higher (odds ratio (OR): 2.90; 95%
confidence interval (95% Cl): 1.62⁻5.21; p < 0.001) in the upper tertile of the
'Non-Healthy' pattern (reference: bottom tertile) and five-times higher (OR:
5.34; 95% Cl: 1.84⁻15.48; p < 0.01) in the upper tertile of the 'High-Hormone'
profile (reference: bottom tertile). There was a positive association of
'Metabolic-Syndrome' profile and an inverse association of 'Polish-aMED' score
with the risk of breast cancer, which disappeared after adjustment for
confounders. No significant association between 'Prudent' or 'Margarine and
Sweetened Dairy' DPs and cancer risk was revealed. Concluding, a pro-healthy diet
is insufficient to reduce the risk of breast cancer in peri- and postmenopausal
women. The findings highlight the harmful effect of the 'High-Hormone' profile
and the 'Non-Healthy' dietary pattern on breast cancer risk. In breast cancer
prevention, special attention should be paid to decreasing the adherence to the
'Non-Healthy' pattern by reducing the consumption of highly processed food and
foods with a high content of sugar and animal fat. There is also a need to
monitor the concentration of multiple sex hormones in the context of breast
cancer risk.
EOF
A moderately high-fat Mediterranean diet does not promote weight gain. This study
aimed to investigate the association between dietary intake of specific types of 
fat and obesity and body weight. A prospective cohort study was performed using
data of 6942 participants in the PREDIMED trial, with yearly repeated validated
food-frequency questionnaires, and anthropometric outcomes (median follow-up: 4.8
years). The effects of replacing dietary fat subtypes for one another, proteins
or carbohydrates were estimated using generalized estimating equations
substitution models. Replacement of 5% energy from saturated fatty acids (SFA)
with monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) or polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA)
resulted in weight changes of -0.38 kg (95% Confidece Iinterval (CI): -0.69,
-0.07), and -0.51 kg (95% CI: -0.81, -0.20), respectively. Replacing proteins
with MUFA or PUFA decreased the odds of becoming obese. Estimates for the daily
substitution of one portion of red meat with white meat, oily fish or white fish 
showed weight changes up to -0.87 kg. Increasing the intake of unsaturated fatty 
acids at the expense of SFA, proteins, and carbohydrates showed beneficial
effects on body weight and obesity. It may therefore be desirable to encourage
high-quality fat diets like the Mediterranean diet instead of restricting total
fat intake.
EOF
In most medical conditions, definitions rely upon exact numbers. In the case of
brow ptosis, it is judgment combined with measurements. Brow ptosis exists when
it interferes with aesthetics or function. The level of brows deemed low in one
person may be perfectly acceptable or "normal" in another. Brows descend over
time in everyone. With the brow being a mobile structure and with the secondary
effects of age, solar elastosis, muscle action, trauma, lesions and gravity, some
degree of brow descent will occur in everyone. The brow position is regarded
differently in different genders, races, ages, and even generations. In some
communities, the concept of changing a brow position or curve as we age is
considered anathema. In many Western societies, it is an accepted desire.
Age-related eyebrow ptosis is secondary to gravitational, involutional, and
exposure changes. In women, brows normally sit above the orbital rim and arch
upward and outward so that the peak of the brow is at the lateral limbus,
although in some societies, a further lateral flare is even more
desirable. Therefore, in women, brow ptosis would is present if the brow is lower
than this ideal. Even a brow above the orbital rim may be low (have brow ptosis) 
and repair or repositioning may be desired. In men, eyebrows normally sit at or
just above the superior orbital rim with the brow shape being more horizontal.
There is variability in the ideal brow in men and women depending upon age,
cultural influences, occupations and secondary effects of the environment.
Therefore, in a weather-worn farmer, a low brow would be considered normal as it 
would protect the farmer from environmental factors like light, dust, and wind.
In an actor, there may not be an ideal brow position as the brow movement would
be utilized to show different expressions in that profession. In a lorry driver
or train driver, where peripheral vision is vital, the brow position may need to 
be higher than in other patients, male or female. So unlike say ptosis, where
clinicians measure corneal reflex-lid margin distance and levator function and
diagnose ptosis numerically, brow ptosis is a subjective assessment based upon
many factors. Brow ptosis is rarely symmetrical because of many factors including
differences between the right and left sides of the face (sometimes with
hemifacial microsomia), different exposure to the elements, and the side a
patient may sleep on, among others. Common Causes: Aging. Facial palsy. Tumors.
Trauma. Clinical Presentation  Cosmetic. Visual obstruction caused by secondary
dermatochalasis. Asymmetric brow positions. Irritation caused by secondary lash
ptosis. Brow ptosis in the absence of trauma, paralysis, or disease occurs slowly
and most patients will not be aware of the brow ptosis until pointed out after a 
clinical examination. Almost everyone over the age of 40 years, male or female,
will have some degree of brow ptosis. Most of these patients will not need
surgical correction. Surgical Procedures: Direct brow lift. Mid-forehead brow
lift. Pretrichial brow lift. Temporal brow lift. Coronal brow lift. Endoscopic
brow lift. Internal brow lift  This article reviews the assessment and planning
of brow lifts, in general, and indications for the mid-forehead lift, in
particular.  Procedure History[1] Historically, many surgical procedures such as 
cataract surgeries, nose reconstructions, skin flaps, have been performed for
hundreds of years and in some, like cataract surgery, thousands of years.
Surprisingly, brow lift surgery was only recorded in the last century when Lexer 
first discussed and presented the forehead lift in 1910. Subsequently, a coronal 
incision and resection of tissue were described by Hunt, who did not undermine
any of the tissues, which led to limited results. Joseph in 1931 presented
detailed descriptions of a pretrichial brow lift and also incisions made lower on
the forehead used to lift the brows. Many surgeons continued simple tissue
resection without any undermining of the proximal or distal tissues until Passot 
improved upon excision of skin behind the hair with temporal facial nerve
denervation in 1933. This would improve the forehead wrinkles; however, the tonic
component of the frontalis muscle would be lost and was therefore not a good
advance to brow lifts. For reasons not exactly clear, surgeons continued to
explore nerve destruction. Edwards presented isolated temporal neurectomy as
recently as 1957. A more anatomical approach was presented by Bames in 1957 when 
he described a direct eyebrow lift. Through this approach, he weakened the
corrugator muscles and undermined the forehead all the way up to the hairline,
while crosshatching the frontalis muscle. Modern hairline and coronal approaches 
(1 cm behind the hairline) to the forehead lift and brow lift were ushered in by 
Pangman and Wallace in 1961. Further refinement in cosmetic surgery was achieved 
when in 1962, Gonzalez-Ulloa performed the forehead lift by incorporating it into
his facelift procedure. In spite of the initial enthusiasm for coronal lifts,
reports in the 1960s and 1970s suggested that results of coronal forehead lifts
were short-lived which led to the procedure losing favor. It had not been
appreciated that without undermining after excision of a strip and somehow
modifying the frontalis muscle; the results were bound to be temporary. So until 
the early 1970s, most surgical procedures consisted or resection and repair
without undermining or manipulation of the forehead muscles. This was partly
because the anatomy and physiology of the forehead were not properly appreciated.
A major advance occurred in the mid-1970s when several surgeons (Skoog, Vinas,
Hinderer, Griffiths, Marino, and others) began to manipulate the frontalis
muscle, usually by excising a strip of the muscle to eliminate the dynamic lines 
on the forehead. This also allowed better stretching of the superficial tissues. 
Washio was one of the first to carry out cadaver studies when he noted (1975)
that removal of a transverse section of the frontalis muscle resulted in a
significant elevation of the forehead. More dramatic surgical innovations by
Tessier, LeRoux, and Jones (1974) advocated the complete removal of the frontalis
muscle. Not surprisingly, this overtly destructive approach did not endure. In
the 1980s and 1990s, the coronal brow lift became the established approach to
brow lifting. This was partly because of the advances made by Tessier and his
group in the approach to the skull via subperiosteal approaches. It has
been said, not entirely in jest, that the coronal brow lift with the associated
loss of hair and sensation and the overly tight look to the forehead and the
brows was "a surgical procedure designed by men to be used on women." In
the 1990s, endoscopic approaches to brow lifts were developed. After evolution of
fixation techniques, it became apparent that in "brow lifting", brow shaping was 
more important and repositioning of the brows and forehead could be controlled
with a proper release of the periosteum from the "lateral canthus to the lateral 
canthus" across the superior orbital rims and the nasal bridge, combined with
manipulation of the depressor and elevator muscles of the brows. Anatomical
details were studied and understood so that safe approaches could be designed
using minimal incision approaches. Understanding the sensory and motor
innervation of the forehead and the periorbital tissues allowed more accurate
manipulation and modification of the tissues and allowed more limited lifts like 
the pretrichial lift and the temporal brow lift. After some debate about the
longevity and effectiveness of endoscopic brow lifts when compared to coronal
brow lifts, there are now 2 schools: one school still largely performs coronal
brow lifts. However, more and more surgeons are becoming experts at performing
endoscopic brow lifts. When patients are chosen correctly, these endoscopic brow 
lifts are creating reliable and long-lasting results. Coronal brow
lifts, pretrichial brow lifts, mid-forehead brow lifts, direct brow lifts, and
temporal brow lifts are now performed for specific indications. The so-called
internal brow lift should be called a supporting procedure than a proper brow
lift. No long-term studies show effective brow lifting and the design of the
procedure does not address the complete arch of the brow, nor the forehead. The
midforehead lift procedure has specific indications, advantages and limitations. 
We have found this approach to be useful in males who have heavy brows with
overactive frontalis muscles and deep forehead wrinkles. The thicker, more
sebaceous skin allows one to hide scars better although there is some debate
about this. Development of Brow Ptosis A common refrain in plastic surgery is "I 
am becoming my mother" or "I look like my dad." What the patient is saying is
that family characteristics (bone structure, genetics, among others) are
manifesting. The commonest cause of brow ptosis is aging (time and the
environment). Everyone has an "aging clock" which is genetically determined, but 
skin and structures are also affected by environmental factors such as smoking,
exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light, health and diet, among others. It is helpful 
to examine photographs, not only of the patients when they were younger, but also
photographs of their parents. Patients exposed to the elements (farmers,
sportsmen, and women) will show marked overaction of the corrugator, procerus and
frontalis muscles, especially if they have not protected their eyes from sunlight
and other harsh environmental factors. The "weathered face" as one describes it, 
seen in sailors and farmers (and the explorers of the 19th century) shows these
changes well, not just in the region of the forehead and the brows but also the
lower face and neck. These patients develop marked corrugator and procerus muscle
lines which are the vertical "elevenses" and the horizontal lines at the root of 
the nose, respectively. The eyebrow heads will appear closer because of the
overaction of the corrugator muscles and in these patients, contrary to common
teaching, surgeons make an effort to elevate and separate the brow heads when a
surgical procedure is performed. There will be deep horizontal forehead lines
secondary to a constant frontalis overuse. There is also a "fat nose syndrome"
appearance that these patients develop. This is caused by the downward slide of
the procerus muscle and the inward movement of the corrugator and procerus
muscles. This results (especially obvious in ladies), a widened bridge of the
nose with the soft tissues "collapsing" downwards and inward. In these patients, 
especially when addressing them for cosmetic reasons, it is vital to slim this
"fat nose syndrome." It is always helpful to compare the current appearance of
the patient with photographs when the patient was younger to assess the degree to
which the brow positions and curves have changed. Sometimes one is surprised to
see that the brows have changed very little from their teenage years. Another
truism is that the young look good with brows high or low; with age people look a
little better with somewhat higher brows. Besides the central and medial changes 
to the brows, lateral brow droop is almost always exaggerated because of a lack
of support by the frontalis muscle. This anatomical insertion of the frontalis
muscle changes as we age, and it has recently been shown that the angle of
insertion between the frontalis muscle and the orbicularis muscle becomes more
acute, thereby leading to further loss of support laterally: this gives the
temporal hooding, lash ptosis and temporal brow droop in such patients, with
secondary crow's feet. On occasion, and often in men, one will see an exaggerated
temporal brow droop because of the lack of support by the frontalis muscle, with 
almost an acute change in the curve of the brow, demanding modified approaches to
correct the problem. Clinical Presentation Presentation of brow ptosis varies
from cosmetic complaints of forehead lines, secondary heaviness (hooding) of the 
upper eyelids, to the presence of frown lines and problems with vision. Patients 
will only rarely complain that their brows are heavy or droopy. Indeed, unlike
many other aging changes of the face, brow ptosis is one condition that is
explained to the patient with the help of a mirror as most patients will not be
aware of the changes they are shown. Cosmetic patients will also mostly focus on 
the "heavy upper eyelids and excessive upper eyelid fullness." Other complaints
may include "looking tired, looking angry or unhappy" either from the patient or 
from family and colleagues. History A thorough preoperative assessment of any
surgical patient is vital. Past illnesses, medications, allergies, and any
history of unusual scarring are noted. Specific emphasis is placed upon any
history of thyroid disease, prior eyelid or brow surgery, unusual scarring
tendency, and any tendency to develop unusual edema. Patients with thyroid
disease must be controlled and stable, ideally for at least 6
months. Patients with thyroid disease will have deeper frown lines and may suffer
from madarosis of the brow hairs. These patients also tend to develop prolonged
edema after any facial surgery. Examination of Forehead and Eyebrows We always
examine the whole face whenever assessing patients with a complaint of problems
with lids, brows, jowls or neck. Indeed, it is good practice to develop an
examination technique and routine which ensures that you can detect any
age-related and other changes which may not be apparent to the patient but need
to be discussed. The differences between the right and the left sides of the face
are examined for asymmetry, an assessment is made of which side the patient
sleeps on, and the presence of any lingering edema (often seen in the malar
regions) noted. Sometimes, what a patient sees may not be what you see when you
examine the whole face. There have been patients who present for a forehead lift 
who are better served with a blepharoplasty and lower lid and face surgery and
vice versa. Specific Examination of Brow Ptosis: Assess the hairlines. Assess the
density of scalp hair centrally and temporally. Measure the height of the
forehead (distance between the corneal reflex and the anterior hairline or the
distance between the central brow and the anterior hairline. Measure brow
position compared to the opposite side. Measure brow position: there are several 
ways to do this. The surgeon should develop his/her system that is repeatable.
The brow can be measured in relation to the superior orbital rim or measured from
the lid margin to the brow or from the corneal reflex to the brow centrally and
from the medial limbus and the lateral limbus to the brow medially and laterally.
Others use the medial and lateral canthi as the reference points.    Measure the 
degree of true dermatochalasis as opposed to secondary dermatochalasis caused by 
the brow ptosis. Assess the medial and central fat pads and any lacrimal gland
prolapse. Assess forehead rhytids  Assess corrugator and procerus lines. Assess
crow's feet. Assess any blepharoptosis that may be present. Basic lower eyelid
assessment must always be performed whenever considering brow surgery or upper
eyelid surgery (or indeed any facial surgery). When documenting brow ptosis, one 
measurement that is repeatable is the measurement of the distance between the
inferior limbus and the center of the brow. Determine if brow ptosis is present: 
in most patients, this distance will be more than 22 mm. Although a measurement
of less than 22 mm will suggest brow ptosis, this will be determined by the many 
other factors we discussed above: age, gender, occupation, among others. Ideal
brow position is an individual feature best determined by the surgeon and
patient. Surgeons customarily review photographs of all patients to determine if 
an age existed when the brows were located in a position that the patient
considers acceptable. Furthermore, brow shape is a more crucial determinant of an
aesthetic brow. In other words, position and shape go together. Dynamic
Measurement of Brow Ptosis With a ruler held medially, centrally, and laterally, 
the brow is elevated and moved (sometimes more lateral) to assess the degree
of brow ptosis. Location is measured in 3 positions, and the difference between
the desired brow position and the relaxed brow position indicates the degree
of brow ptosis. However, the frontalis will be active to different degrees in
different patients and also at different times of the day, making exact
measurements difficult. Brow asymmetry also needs to be assessed and documented. 
Patients are shown the findings in front of a mirror as many will be unaware of
asymmetry. Although all discussions concentrate on the brow and the brow height
and curve, surgeons must not forget that the forehead is just as important; they 
should document the severity of glabellar, corrugator, and frontalis lines and
also skin changes related to solar elastosis. The distance between the brow and
the anterior hairline needs to be measured because in some patients it may be
desirable to bring the hairline forward. In these cases, a properly performed
pretrichial brow lift will give excellent results. Bear in mind that cultural,
racial, gender, and age-related differences make it difficult to give exact
normal measurements. Every patient seen for or considering a brow lift should
have their upper eyelids and lower eyelids assessed. The forehead/brow, upper
eyelid, and lower eyelid region are a continuum as procedures done above the
canthus (brows and upper eyelids) may be influenced by lower eyelid changes
(laxity, retraction, ectropion), and procedures on the lower eyelids may affect
the final appearance of upper eyelids, especially if there is an underlying
ptosis or dermatochalasis, primary or secondary. Indeed, one may argue that the
continuum should be forehead, brows, upper lids, and cheeks. It has been shown
that one raises the nasojugal and malar groove (sometimes called the orbital
groove), it makes the brows look better even when nothing is done to the brows.
This is an interesting and important observation that the serious aesthetic
surgeon would do well to study further. Discuss this in the overall assessment of
the face in aesthetic patients. Assessment of the upper eyelid should include the
following: Corneal reflex-lid margin distance. Position and presence of upper
eyelid skin crease. Assess if the patient has primary and secondary skin creases.
Amount of tarsal platform show. Degree of dermatochalasis: primary and secondary.
Upper-fat herniation medial and central. Assess lacrimal gland prominence. Assess
upper eyelid skin condition (solar elastosis, vertical wrinkles, vessels showing,
among others). Assessment of the lower eyelid should include the following:
Medial canthus: Position, laxity, dystopia, scarring, webbing. Lateral canthus:
Position, dystopia, laxity, scarring, webbing. Lower eyelid distraction test.
Lower eyelid snapback test. Inferior scleral show. Presence of medial central and
lateral fat pads. Nasojugal and malar grooves. Malar angle. Bell's phenomenon.
Tear film integrity and tear breakup time. Blink completeness. Corneal sensation 
and health. Hertel measurement of the globe (proptosis or enophthalmos may be
present). A summary of patient evaluation that is specific for forehead and brow 
elevation is as follows: Hair: Density and distribution. Hairline: Frontal and
temporal. Forehead height relative to facial proportions and racial
characteristics. Forehead height: Eyebrows to anterior scalp hairline. Forehead
transverse rhytids: Distribution and depth. Forehead temporal rhytides. Crow's
feet. Skin thickness, quality, and sebaceous quality. Eyebrow shape and symmetry.
Eyebrow position (degree of medial, central, and lateral ptosis). Eyebrow hair
distribution: Evidence of plucking, loss, other changes. Eyebrow mobility:
Paralysis, scarring, tumor. Severity and distribution of glabellar and nasal root
rhytides. Degree of dermatochalasis, hooding, and eyelid ptosis. Facial nerve
function and any history of prior facial palsy. Prior scars. Do not forget to
assess lower eyelid tone, position, and canthal position.
EOF
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women worldwide, and dietary
lipids are important environmental factors influencing its etiology. We have
investigated the effects, and the mechanisms associated, of high-fat diets on
7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene-induced rat mammary tumors. Animals were fed a
low-fat, a high-corn-oil (HCO) or a high-extra-virgin-olive-oil (HOO) diet from
weaning or after induction. The HCO diet had a clear stimulating effect on
mammary carcinogenesis, especially when dietary intervention started after
induction, whereas the tumors from HOO diet groups exhibited clinical and
morphological characteristics similar to those from low-fat controls.
Transcriptomic and further protein and immunohistochemical analyses of tumors
also indicated different modulatory effects of high-fat diets affecting relevant 
biological functions: metabolism, immunosurveillance and proliferation/apoptosis 
pathways. Thus, the results suggested different metabolic adaptations with
increased glycolysis by effect of HOO diet. Moreover, leukocyte tumor
infiltration and inflammation mediators showed increased cytotoxic T cells and
decreased TGFβ1 expression by the HOO diet, while the HCO one increased arginase 
expression and IL-1α plasma levels. Furthermore, the study of proteins
controlling proliferation/apoptosis pathways (Sema3A, Stat5, Smad1, Casp3)
suggested an increase in proliferation by the HCO diet and an increase of
apoptosis by the diet rich in olive oil. In conclusion, the HCO diet clearly
stimulated mammary carcinogenesis, especially in the promotion phase, and induced
molecular changes suggesting increased tumor proliferation/apoptosis balance and 
a proinflammatory microenvironment. The HOO diet, despite being high fat, had a
weaker effect on tumorigenesis probably related to metabolic adaptations,
enhanced immunosurveillance and increased apoptosis.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NAFLD/NASH) is an increasing clinical problem associated with
progression to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The effect of a high-fat diet on
the early immune response in HCC is poorly understood, while the role of
metformin in treating NAFLD and HCC remains controversial. Herein, we visualized 
the early immune responses in the liver and the effect of metformin on
progression of HCC using optically transparent zebrafish.
METHODS: We used live imaging to visualize liver inflammation and disease
progression in a NAFLD/NASH-HCC zebrafish model. We combined a high-fat diet with
a transgenic zebrafish HCC model induced by hepatocyte-specific activated
beta-catenin and assessed liver size, angiogenesis, micronuclei formation and
inflammation in the liver. In addition, we probed the effects of metformin on
immune cell composition and early HCC progression.
RESULTS: We found that a high-fat diet induced an increase in liver size,
enhanced angiogenesis, micronuclei formation and neutrophil infiltration in the
liver. Although macrophage number was not affected by diet, a high-fat diet
induced changes in macrophage morphology and polarization with an increase in
liver associated TNFα-positive macrophages. Treatment with metformin altered
macrophage polarization, reduced liver size and reduced micronuclei formation in 
NAFLD/NASH-associated HCC larvae. Moreover, a high-fat diet reduced T cell
density in the liver, which was reversed by treatment with metformin.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that diet alters macrophage polarization and 
exacerbates the liver inflammatory microenvironment and cancer progression in a
zebrafish model of NAFLD/NASH-associated HCC. Metformin specifically affects the 
progression induced by diet and modulates the immune response by affecting
macrophage polarization and T cell infiltration, suggesting possible effects of
metformin on tumor surveillance.
LAY SUMMARY: This paper reports a new zebrafish model that can be used to study
the effects of diet on liver cancer. We found that a high-fat diet promotes
non-resolving inflammation in the liver and enhances cancer progression. In
addition, we found that metformin, a drug used to treat diabetes, inhibits
high-fat diet-induced cancer progression in this model, by reducing diet-induced 
non-resolving inflammation and potentially restoring tumor surveillance.
EOF
The aim of this study was to investigate whether maternal cafeteria ingestion
interferes with long-term memory-related behaviors and hippocampal brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling in the offspring, and if there is a
cumulative effect with the exposure to cafeteria diet during the life-course of
the pups. Female rats were fed a control (CON, n=20) or cafeteria diet (CAF,
n=24) from their weaning to weaning of their offspring. After that, their male
offspring were divided into 4 groups (CON-CON, n=36; CON-CAF, n=38, CAF-CON, n=46
and CAF-CAF, n=39) so that all litters ingested CON or CAF, irrespective of
maternal diet. At 30 days of age, all groups exposed to cafeteria diet at some
stage in life showed a decline in performance on one or both object recognition
and inhibitory avoidance tasks. At 120 days, CON-CAF and CAF-CAF groups continued
to show memory impairment. There were no significant differences between groups
in the hippocampal concentrations of BDNF and cAMP Response Element Binding
protein (CREB) in puberty or adulthood, but the concentration of hippocampal
Ras-Raf-MEK-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was higher in CAF-CAF
pubescent offspring when compared to the CON-CON group. These data suggest that
maternal diet affects the behavior and the molecular signaling related to
long-term memory of the offspring, and that its effects are influenced by
postnatal diet.
EOF
RATIONALE: The mechanisms driving atherothrombotic risk in individuals with JAK2 
V617F ( Jak2 VF) positive clonal hematopoiesis or myeloproliferative neoplasms
are poorly understood.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to assess atherosclerosis and underlying
mechanisms in hypercholesterolemic mice with hematopoietic Jak2 VF expression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Irradiated low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (
Ldlr-/-) mice were transplanted with bone marrow from wild-type or Jak2 VF mice
and fed a high-fat high-cholesterol Western diet. Hematopoietic functions and
atherosclerosis were characterized. After 7 weeks of Western diet, Jak2 VF mice
showed increased atherosclerosis. Early atherosclerotic lesions showed increased 
neutrophil adhesion and content, correlating with lesion size. After 12 weeks of 
Western diet, Jak2 VF lesions showed increased complexity, with larger necrotic
cores, defective efferocytosis, prominent iron deposition, and costaining of
erythrocytes and macrophages, suggesting erythrophagocytosis. Jak2 VF
erythrocytes were more susceptible to phagocytosis by wild-type macrophages and
showed decreased surface expression of CD47, a "don't-eat-me" signal. Human
JAK2VF erythrocytes were also more susceptible to erythrophagocytosis. Jak2 VF
macrophages displayed increased expression and production of proinflammatory
cytokines and chemokines, prominent inflammasome activation, increased p38 MAPK
(mitogen-activated protein kinase) signaling, and reduced levels of MerTK (c-Mer 
tyrosine kinase), a key molecule mediating efferocytosis. Increased
erythrophagocytosis also suppressed efferocytosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Hematopoietic Jak2 VF expression promotes early lesion formation and
increased complexity in advanced atherosclerosis. In addition to increasing
hematopoiesis and neutrophil infiltration in early lesions, Jak2 VF caused
cellular defects in erythrocytes and macrophages, leading to increased
erythrophagocytosis but defective efferocytosis. These changes promote
accumulation of iron in plaques and increased necrotic core formation which,
together with exacerbated proinflammatory responses, likely contribute to plaque 
instability.
EOF
In the diet of the population of Yakutia, the meat of 6-month-old and local herd 
horses is especially valued for its high nutritive value, excellent taste and
dietary properties. In addition to meat, a number of other slaughter products,
such as by-products, intestinal raw materials, internal fat, blood, etc., can be 
received during primary processing. Many of them are not fully used. The
relevance of this work is to study the possibilities of waste-free use of the
Yakut horse products. Biochemical investigation of the composition of the
secondary products of slaughter (fat, blood, by-products, intestinal raw
materials) was carried out, a concentrate from the internal fat of foals and dry 
blood were obtained. The inner fat of the Yakut horse in terms of the content of 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) exceeded the PUFA level in subcutaneous fat.
The content of linoleic acid was 10.91-12.25%. A low-temperature method for
recovering fat has been tested, a fat-containing feed with a PUFA content of
about 23% has been obtained. Slaughter blood is a high-value raw material for the
production of functional food products as a source of iron, amino acids and other
components. The iron content in the blood dried in the infrared dryer fluctuated 
in insignificant limits from 216.8 to 242.0 mg/kg that indicated a stable level
of provision of horses with this trace element. The protein level in the dry
blood of mature mares (8-19 years) was 87%. The results of the study of young
offspring of the Yakut horse showed that such offal of the first category as
liver, heart, kidneys were rich in protein (from 19.1±0.1 to 22.0±0.1%). The
esophagus was high in fat (22.3±0.1%). The stomach and intestines were
characterized by high ash content (from 3.2±0.2 to 8.0±0.7%).
EOF
The aim of this study was the evaluation of hypoglycemic action of functional
food ingredient (FFI) - a polyphenol food matrix in 3-month in vivo experiment
with the use of fat male mice C57BL/6. The food matrix was produced by means of
incubation of bilberry leaves extract (2% solution, pH 3.6) with buckwheat flour 
in ratio 1:50 during 45 min at 25 °C. The polyphenol content in experimental
batch of matrix was 26.6±0.5 mg-equivalent of gallic acid per 1 g of flour. The
experiment was conducted with the use of 46 male mice C57Bl/6c. Blood glucose
level was estimated before starting the feeding experiment. An oral fasting
glucose tolerance test (GTT) was also conducted, the area under the curve (AUC)
was calculated. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups (according to the
body weight, glucose level and AUC): control group K1, fed with standard
semisynthetic diet, control group K2 (n=10) and experimental groups G3 and G4
(n=13). The symptoms of type 2 diabetes in groups K2, G3 and G4 were modeled with
the use of high-fat high-carbohydrate diet (HFHC diet, 30% fat, 20% sucrose). FFI
was included into the diet of animals of experimental groups G3 and G4 in doses
2.5 and 5 g per 100 g of ration, respectively. The GTT test was repeated on the
40th and 82nd days of experiment. On the 15th, 54th and 91st days the insulin
resistance test (IRT) was conducted. The consumption of HFHC diet by K2 group
animals resulted in development of obesity in these animals to the week 11, which
was characterized by increase in the body weight gain (37.1±4.9%) in comparison
with control group K1 animals (23.4±2.2%). The introduction of FFI into animal's 
diet decreased significantly body weight gain of these animals in comparison with
K2 group. On the week 8, the significant increase in blood glucose level of
animals fed with HFHC diet was found (K2 - 8.2±0.3, G3 - 8.1±0.3, G4 - 8.5±0.3
mmol/L), in comparison with control group K1 (7.1±0.3 mmol/L). On the 91st day of
experiment this difference remained significant only for group K2 (9.3±0.6
against K1 group - 7.7±0.3 mmol/L), what shows the beneficial hypoglycemic action
of the FFI in both doses (for G3 group - 8.5±0.2, for G4 - 8.4±0.3 mmol/L). On
the week 8 the disorder in glucose tolerance was found in animals of group K2,
what is one of type 2 diabetes symptoms. The introduction of FFI in a dose 2.5
g/100 g into group G3 diet inhibited the development of these disease symptoms.
The introduction of FFI in a higher dose (5 g/100 g of a diet) to a certain
extent inhibited the development of insulin resistance. There was no effect of
FFI, introduced into animal's diet, on cognitive functions and short-term and
long-term memory.
EOF
In this study, the impact of dietary sn-2 palmitic triacylglycerol (sn-2 PTAG) on
faecal lipids, calcium excretion and lipid metabolic alternation was investigated
in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats fed with high-fat diet containing either palm olein
(PO, sn-2 palmitic acid (PA) of 14.8%), sn-2 PTAG50 (sn-2 PA of 56.4%) or sn-2
PTAG70 (sn-2 PA of 72.4%), respectively. After 4-week feeding period, SD rats fed
with sn-2 PTAGs showed reduced faecal soap fatty acids, neutral lipid and calcium
excretion compared to those of PO-fed rats, whereas a significant difference was 
only observed for the sn-2 PTAG70-fed rats (p < .05). Moreover, dietary sn-2
PTAG70 also showed a significant effect on decreasing serum triacylglycerol (TAG)
level, reducing perirenal adipocyte size and regulating lipid metabolism in small
intestine and perirenal adipose tissue of SD rats. Significantly increased mRNA
levels of genes involved in intestinal lipid anabolism as well as lipid
catabolism were both observed in the sn-2 PTAG70-fed rats (p < .05). Meanwhile,
dietary sn-2 PTAG70 also significantly up-regulated lipolysis, mitochondrial
fatty acid oxidation and thermogenesis-related gene and protein levels in
perirenal adipose tissue, which might be correlated with the reduced perirenal
adipocyte size. Taken together, our findings indicated that sn-2 PTAG70 may have 
some beneficial effects on intestinal lipid utilisation and lipid metabolic
activity for energy supply in visceral adipose tissue.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: With increasing prevalence of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
effective strategies to prevent NASH are needed. This study investigated whether 
the consumption of blackcurrant (Ribes nigrum) can prevent the development of
obesity-induced NASH in vivo.
METHODS: Male C57BL/6J mice were fed a low-fat control diet, a low-fat diet with 
6% whole blackcurrant powder, an obesogenic high-fat/high-sucrose control diet
(HF), or a high-fat/high-sucrose diet containing 6% whole blackcurrant powder
(HF-B) for 24 weeks.
RESULTS: HF significantly increased, whereas HF-B markedly decreased, liver
weights and triglyceride. Furthermore, blackcurrant attenuated obesity-induced
infiltration of macrophages in the liver, in particular, the M1 type, and also
suppressed the hepatic expression of fibrogenic genes and fibrosis. Flow
cytometric analysis showed that HF significantly increased the percentages of
monocytes of total splenocytes, which was markedly attenuated by blackcurrant.
HF-B decreased lipopolysaccharide-stimulated mRNA expression of interleukin 1β
and tumor necrosis factor α in splenocytes, compared with those from HF controls.
Moreover, the levels of circulating and hepatic miR-122-5p and miR-192-5p, known 
markers for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, were significantly increased by HF 
but decreased by HF-B.
CONCLUSIONS: The study's findings indicate that blackcurrant consumption prevents
obesity-induced steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis in the liver.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Non-human primate models of developmental programming by maternal
obesity (MO) are needed for translation to human programming outcomes. We present
baboon offspring (F1) morphometry, blood cortisol, and adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH) from 0.9 gestation to 0-2 years.
METHODS: Control mothers ate chow; MO mothers ate high-fat high-energy diet
pre-pregnancy through lactation.
RESULTS: Maternal obesity mothers weighed more than controls pre-pregnancy.
Maternal obesity gestational weight gain was lower with no correlation with fetal
or placenta weights. At 0.9 gestation, MO and control F1 morphometry and ACTH
were similar. MO-F1 0.9 gestation male cortisol was lower, rising slower from
0-2 years vs control-F1. At birth, male MO-F1 and control-F1 weights were
similar, but growth from 0-2 years was steeper in MO-F1; newborn female MO-F1
weighed more than control-F1 but growth from 0-2 years was similar. ACTH did not 
change in either sex.
CONCLUSIONS: Maternal obesity produced sexually dimorphic fetal and postnatal
growth and hormonal phenotypes.
EOF
This study aimed to investigate the antidiabetic activity of water-ethanol
extract of green macroalgae Enteromorpha prolifera (EPW) and its flavonoid-rich
fraction less than 3 kDa (EPW3) in type 2 diabetic mice induced by streptozotocin
and a high-sucrose/high-fat diet. The major active compounds were identified
using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with
quadrupole-time-of-flight-tandem mass spectrometry. Quantitative gene expression 
analysis of the insulin signaling pathway was performed. The effects of EPW3 on
gut microflora in diabetic mice were analyzed by high-throughput 16S rRNA gene
sequencing. The results showed EPW3 treatment decreased the fasting blood
glucose, improved oral glucose tolerance, and protected against liver and kidney 
injury with reduced inflammation in diabetic mice. The active principle of EPW3
revealed hypoglycemic effect as indicated by activation of the IRS1/PI3K/AKT and 
inhibition of the JNK1/2 insulin pathway in liver. Furthermore, the treatment
significantly enriched the abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Alisties, which were 
positive correlation of metabolic phenotypes. These findings indicated that EPW3 
possessed great therapeutic potential as adjuvant therapy for type 2 diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND: African Americans (AA) are more likely to develop Alzheimer's disease
(AD) than Caucasians (CC). Dietary modification may have the potential to reduce 
the risk of developing AD.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between
Southern and Prudent diet patterns and cognitive performance in individuals at
risk for developing AD.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional observational study.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty-six cognitively normal AA and CC individuals aged 46-77 years
with a parental history of AD were enrolled.
MEASUREMENTS: Participants completed a Food Frequency questionnaire, cognitive
function testing, which consisted of 8 neuropsychological tests, and
cardiovascular risk factor assessments, including evaluation of microvascular and
macrovascular function and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.
RESULTS: Results revealed a relationship between the Southern diet and worse
cognitive performance among AAs. AAs who consumed pies, mashed potatoes, tea, and
sugar drinks showed worse cognitive performance (p<0.05) compared with CCs. In
addition, gravy (p=0.06) and cooking oil/fat (p=0.06) showed negative trends with
cognitive performance in AAs. In both CC and AA adults, greater adherence to a
Prudent dietary pattern was associated with better cognitive outcomes.
Cardiovascular results show that participants are overall healthy. AAs and CCs
did not differ on any vascular measure including BP, arterial stiffness and
endothelial function.
CONCLUSION: Research shows that dietary factors can associate with cognitive
outcomes. This preliminary cross-sectional study suggests that foods
characteristic of the Southern and Prudent diets may have differential effects on
cognitive function in middle-aged individuals at high risk for AD. Results
suggest that diet could be a non-pharmaceutical tool to reduce cognitive decline 
in racially diverse populations. It is possible that the increased prevalence of 
AD in AA could be partially reduced via diet modification.
EOF
AIM: To identify the effect of hydrogen-rich water (HRW) and
electrolyzed-alkaline water (EAW) on high-fat-induced non-alcoholic fatty acid
disease in mice.
METHODS: Mice were divided into four groups: (1) Regular diet (RD)/regular water 
(RW); (2) high-fat diet (HFD)/RW; (3) RD/EAW; and (4) HFD/EAW. Weight and body
composition were measured. After twelve weeks, animals were sacrificed, and
livers were processed for histology and reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction. A similar experiment was performed using HRW to determine the influence
and importance of molecular hydrogen (H2) in EAW. Finally, we compared the
response of hepatocytes isolated from mice drinking HRW or RW to palmitate
overload.
RESULTS: EAW had several properties important to the study: (1) pH = 11; (2)
oxidation-reduction potential of -495 mV; and (3) H2 = 0.2 mg/L. However, in
contrast to other studies, there were no differences between the groups drinking 
EAW or RW in either the RD or HFD groups. We hypothesized that the null result
was due to low H2 concentrations. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of RW and
low and high HRW concentrations (L-HRW = 0.3 mg H2/L and H-HRW = 0.8 mg H2/L,
respectively) in mice fed an HFD. Compared to RW and L-HRW, H-HRW resulted in a
lower increase in fat mass (46% vs 61%), an increase in lean body mass (42% vs
28%), and a decrease in hepatic lipid accumulation (P < 0.01). Lastly, exposure
of hepatocytes isolated from mice drinking H-HRW to palmitate overload
demonstrated a protective effect from H2 by reducing hepatocyte lipid
accumulation in comparison to mice drinking regular water.
CONCLUSION: H2 is the therapeutic agent in electrolyzed-alkaline water and
attenuates HFD-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The interaction between fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and
fasting insulin (FI) concentrations and diets with different carbohydrate content
were studied as prognostic markers of weight loss as recent studies up to 6
months of duration have suggested the importance of these biomarkers.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of a clinical trial where
participants with obesity were randomized to an ad libitum low-carbohydrate diet 
or a low-fat diet with low energy content (1200-1800 kcal/day [≈ 5.0-7.5 MJ/d];
≤ 30% calories from fat) for 24 months. Participants were categorized
(pretreatment) as normoglycemic (FPG < 5.6 mmol/L) or prediabetic
(FPG ≥ 5.6-6.9 mmol/L) and further stratified by median FI. Linear mixed models
were used to examine outcomes by FPG and FI values.
RESULTS: After 2 years, participants with prediabetes and high FI lost 7.2  kg
(95% CI 2.1;12.2, P = 0.005) more with the low-fat than low-carbohydrate diet,
whereas those with prediabetes and low FI tended to lose 6.2  kg (95% CI
-0.9;13.3, P = 0.088) more on the low-carbohydrate diet than low-fat diet [mean
difference: 13.3 kg (95% CI 4.6;22.0, P = 0.003)]. No differences between diets
were found among participants with normoglycemia and either high or low FI (both 
P ≥ 0.16).
CONCLUSIONS: Fasting plasma glucose and insulin are strong predictors of the
weight loss response to diets with different macronutrient composition and might 
be a useful approach for personalized weight management.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The increasing global prevalence of obesity and its associated
disorders points to an urgent need for the development of novel and effective
strategies for the prevention of weight gain. Here, we investigated the potential
of α-cedrene, a volatile sesquiterpene compound derived from cedarwood oil, in
regulation of obesity and delineated the mechanisms involved.
METHODS: For the prevention of obesity, C57BL/6 N mice were fed a high-fat diet
(HFD) and were orally administered either with vehicle or α-cedrene for 8 weeks. 
For the therapy of obesity, obese Sprague Dawley rats, induced by a HFD for 8
weeks, were orally treated either with vehicle or α-cedrene for 12 weeks. To
determine whether the action of α-cedrene was Adcy3 dependent, Adcy3 heterozygous
null mice (Adcy3+/-) and wild-type controls were fed either HFD or α-cedrene
supplemented HFD for 17 weeks.
RESULTS: Oral α-cedrene administration prevented or reversed HFD-induced obesity 
and abnormal metabolic aberrations in rodents, without affecting their food
intake. Downregulation of Adcy3 expression by small interfering RNA abrogated the
beneficial effects of α-cedrene on the oxygen consumption rate and intracellular 
lipid accumulation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Similarly, in Adcy3+/- mice, the
α-cedrene-driven suppression of body weight gain observed in wild-type mice was
substantially (~50%) attenuated. Expression of thermogenic and lipid oxidation
genes was increased in adipose tissues of α-cedrene-treated mice, with
concomitant downregulation of adipogenic gene expression. These beneficial
molecular changes elicited by α-cedrene were blunted in adipose tissues of
Adcy3+/- mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results highlight the potential of α-cedrene for antiobesity
interventions and suggest that the antiobesity effect of α-cedrene is mediated by
Adcy3 in adipose tissues.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Evidence from epidemiological and animal studies support the concept 
of programming fetal, neonatal, and adult health in response to in utero
exposures such as maternal obesity and lifestyle variables. Excess gestational
weight gain (GWG), maternal physical activity, and sub-optimal and excess
nutrition during pregnancy may program the offspring's risk of obesity. Maternal 
intake of dairy foods rich in high-quality proteins, calcium, and vitamin D may
influence later bone health status. Current clinical practice guidelines for
managing GWG are not founded on randomized trials and lack specific "active
intervention ingredients." The Be Healthy in Pregnancy (BHIP) study is a
randomized controlled trial (RCT) designed to test the effectiveness of a novel
structured and monitored Nutrition + Exercise intervention in pregnant women of
all pre-pregnancy weight categories (except extreme obesity), delivered through
prenatal care in community settings (rather than in hospital settings), on the
likelihood of women achieving recommended GWG and a benefit to bone status of
offspring and mother at birth and six months postpartum.
METHODS: The BHIP study is a two-site RCT that will recruit up to 242
participants aged > 18 years at 12-17 weeks of gestation. After baseline
measures, participants are randomized to either a structured and monitored
Nutrition + Exercise (intervention) or usual care (control) program for the
duration of their pregnancy. The primary outcome of the study is the percent of
women who achieve GWG within the Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines. The
secondary outcomes include: (1) maternal bone status via blood bone biomarkers
during pregnancy; (2) infant bone status in cord blood; (3) mother and infant
bone status measured by dual-energy absorptiometry scanning (DXA scan) at
six months postpartum; (4) other measures including maternal blood pressure,
blood glucose and lipid profiles, % body fat, and postpartum weight retention;
and (5) infant weight z-scores and fat mass at six months of age.
DISCUSSION: If effective, this RCT will generate high-quality evidence to refine 
the nutrition guidelines during pregnancy to improve the likelihood of women
achieving recommended GWG. It will also demonstrate the importance of early
nutrition on bone health in the offspring.
EOF
Obesity is prevalent in modern society because of a lifestyle consisting of high 
dietary fat and sucrose consumption combined with little exercise. Among the
consequences of obesity are the emerging epidemics of hepatic steatosis and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Sterol regulatory element-binding
protein-1c (SREBP-1c) is a transcription factor that stimulates gene expression
related to de novo lipogenesis in the liver. In response to a high-fat diet, the 
expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) γ2, another
nuclear receptor, is increased, which leads to the development of NAFLD.
β-Conglycinin, a soy protein, prevents NAFLD induced by diets high in
sucrose/fructose or fat by decreasing the expression and function of these
nuclear receptors. β-Conglycinin also improves NAFLD via the same mechanism as
for prevention. Fish oil contains n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids such as
eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid. Fish oil is more effective at
preventing NAFLD induced by sucrose/fructose because SREBP-1c activity is
inhibited. However, the effect of fish oil on NAFLD induced by fat is
controversial because fish oil further increases PPARγ2 expression, depending
upon the experimental conditions. Alcohol intake also causes an alcoholic fatty
liver, which is induced by increased SREBP-1c and PPARγ2 expression and decreased
PPARα expression. β-Conglycinin and fish oil are effective at preventing
alcoholic fatty liver because β-conglycinin decreases the function of SREBP-1c
and PPARγ2, and fish oil decreases the function of SREBP-1c and increases that of
PPARα.
EOF
Promoting the browning of white fat may be a potential means of combating
obesity. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the effect of resveratrol
(RES) on the body weight and browning of white fat in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced
obese mice and the potential associated mechanism in vivo. Eight-week-old male
mice were randomized to receive different treatments: (1), chow without any
additional treatment (chow); (2), chow plus 0.4% resveratrol (chow-RES); (3), HFD
without any additional treatment (HFD); and (4), HFD plus 0.4% resveratrol
(HFD-RES). After 4 weeks of feeding, additional 8-week-old male recipient mice
were randomly allocated to the following 4 treatments: (5), HFD and received
feces from chow-fed mice; (6), HFD and received feces from chow-RES-fed mice;
(7), HFD and received feces from HFD-fed mice; and (8), HFD and received feces
from HFD-RES-fed mice. RES treatment significantly inhibited increases in fat
accumulation, promoted the browning of white adipose tissue (WAT) and alleviated 
gut microbiota dysbiosis in HFD-fed mice. Subsequent analyses showed that the gut
microbiota remodeling induced by resveratrol had a positive role in WAT browning,
and sirtuin-1 (Sirt1) signaling appears to be a key component of this process.
Overall, the results show that RES may serve as a potential intervention to
reduce obesity by alleviating dysbiosis of the gut microbiota.
EOF
We found previously that white adipose tissue (WAT) hyperplasia in obese mice was
limited by dietary omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 PUFA). Here we
aimed to characterize the underlying mechanism. C57BL/6N mice were fed a high-fat
diet supplemented or not with omega-3 PUFA for one week or eight weeks; mice fed 
a standard chow diet were also used. In epididymal WAT (eWAT), DNA content was
quantified, immunohistochemical analysis was used to reveal the size of
adipocytes and macrophage content, and lipidomic analysis and a gene expression
screen were performed to assess inflammatory status. The stromal-vascular
fraction of eWAT, which contained most of the eWAT cells, except for adipocytes, 
was characterized using flow cytometry. Omega-3 PUFA supplementation limited the 
high-fat diet-induced increase in eWAT weight, cell number (DNA content),
inflammation, and adipocyte growth. eWAT hyperplasia was compromised due to the
limited increase in the number of preadipocytes and a decrease in the number of
endothelial cells. The number of leukocytes and macrophages was unaffected, but a
shift in macrophage polarization towards a less inflammatory phenotype was
observed. Our results document that the counteraction of eWAT hyperplasia by
omega-3 PUFA in dietary-obese mice reflects an effect on the number of adipose
lineage and endothelial cells.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by abnormal
accumulation of triglycerides (TG) in the liver and other metabolic syndrome
symptoms, but its molecular genetic causes are not completely understood. Here,
we show that mice deficient for ubiquitin ligase (E3) Smad ubiquitin regulatory
factor 1 (Smurf1) spontaneously develop hepatic steatosis as they age and exhibit
the exacerbated phenotype under a high-fat diet (HFD). Our data indicate that
loss of Smurf1 up-regulates the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptor γ (PPARγ) and its target genes involved in lipid synthesis and fatty
acid uptake. We further show that PPARγ is a direct substrate of Smurf1-mediated 
non-proteolytic lysine 63 (K63)-linked ubiquitin modification that suppresses its
transcriptional activity, and treatment of Smurf1-deficient mice with a PPARγ
antagonist, GW9662, completely reversed the lipid accumulation in the liver.
Finally, we demonstrate an inverse correlation of low SMURF1 expression to high
body mass index (BMI) values in human patients, thus revealing a new role of
SMURF1 in NAFLD pathogenesis.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Stress and obesity lead structural and functional abnormalities in
many organs. This research investigated the effect of these two risk factors on
sperm parameters and histologic structure of testis in rat model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four male rats were divided into four groups with
six rats in each group as control, stress, obesity, and stress-obesity groups.
The rats of obesity and stress-obesity groups were fed high-fat diet for 12-week 
and obesity was created. Control and stress groups were given standard rat chow
for the same time. Through last 4-week, stress and stress-obesity groups were
applied to chronic mild stress procedure. At the end of the experiment,
epididymal sperm was collected from vas deferens and testes were harvested from
sacrificed animals. Sperm samples were evaluated in terms of concentration and
motility by using Makler Chamber. Sperm smears were stained with Eosin-Y stain
for morphological evaluation, and also histochemically for GABA transporter-1
(GAT1) expression assessment. Testis sections were dyed with Hematoxylin-Eosin
and Johnsen scores were assessed. GAT1 expression was detected in testis sections
by immunohistochemistry, and TUNEL method was used for determining apoptosis in
testis.
RESULTS: In comparison with the control samples in stress, obesity, and
stress-obesity groups sperm concentration and motility decreased, and also the
number of sperm with abnormal morphology increased. Stress, obesity, and
stress-obesity groups showed a significantly decreased in sperm concentration and
motility in comparison with the control group, and also in these groups had
significantly increased number of abnormal sperm compared to control.
Additionally, the testicular structure was deteriorated, and Johnsen scores
decreased. And also GAT1 expression and apoptosis were prominent. These negative 
results, especially, testicular weight, sperm concentration, and Johnsen score
were more observed in the stress-obesity group.
CONCLUSIONS: Stress and obesity may induce male infertility by disrupting both
sperm quality and testis histology. When stress and obesity are coexisting, these
adverse effects are more severe. And also, increased GAT1 expression may be
associated with these effects.
EOF
KEY POINTS: Obesity is associated with disrupted satiety regulation. Mice with
diet-induced obesity have reduced vagal afferent neuronal excitability and a
decreased afferent response to satiety signals. A low grade inflammation occurs
in obesity with increased expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS).
Inhibition of iNOS in diet-induced obese mice restored vagal afferent neuronal
excitability, increased the afferent response to satiety mediators and distention
of the gut, and reduced short-term energy intake. A prolonged inhibition of iNOS 
reduced energy intake and body weight gain during the first week, and reduced
amounts of epididymal fat after 3 weeks. We identified a novel pathway underlying
disrupted satiety regulation in obesity. Blocking of this pathway might be
clinically useful for the management of obesity.
ABSTRACT: Vagal afferents regulate feeding by transmitting satiety signals to the
brain. Mice with diet-induced obesity have reduced vagal afferent sensitivity to 
satiety signals. We investigated whether inducible nitric oxide synthase
(iNOS)-derived NO contributed to this reduction. C57BL/6J mice were fed a high-
or low-fat diet for 6-8 weeks. Nodose ganglia and jejunum were analysed by
immunoblotting for iNOS expression; NO production was measured using a
fluorometric assay. Nodose neuron excitability and intestinal afferent
sensitivity were evaluated by whole-cell patch clamp and in vitro afferent
recording, respectively. Expression of iNOS and production of NO were increased
in nodose ganglia and the small intestine in obese mice. Inhibition of iNOS in
obese mice by pre-treatment with an iNOS inhibitor increased nodose neuron
excitability via 2-pore-domain K+ channel leak currents, restored afferent
sensitivity to satiety signals and reduced short-term energy intake. Obese mice
given the iNOS inhibitor daily for 3 weeks had reduced energy intake and
decreased body weight gain during the first week, compared to mice given saline, 
and lower amounts of epididymal fat at the end of 3 weeks. Inhibition of iNOS or 
blocking the action of iNOS-derived NO on vagal afferent pathways might comprise 
therapeutic strategies for hyperphagia and obesity.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is recognized as a significant risk factor for fragility
of bone. Among the newer anti-diabetic agents, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors 
(DPP4i) have been reported to decrease the occurrence of bone fractures although 
the reason is unclear. The main aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of
sitagliptin treatment on tissue bone strength and compositional parameters in the
high-fat-fed mouse model. Male NIH swiss mice were allowed free access to
high-fat diet for 150 days to induce chronic hyperglycemia and insulin
resistance. Sitagliptin was administered once daily for 3 weeks. High-fat-fed
mice administered with saline were used as controls. Bone strength was assessed
at the organ and tissue level by three-point bending and nanoindentation,
respectively. Bone microarchitecture was investigated by microcomputed tomography
and bone composition was evaluated by Fourier transform infrared imaging and
quantitative backscattered electron imaging. Administration of sitagliptin
increased non-fasting insulin, improved glucose tolerance and increased insulin
sensitivity. This was associated with clear ameliorations in bone strength at the
organ and tissue level. No changes in trabecular or cortical microarchitectures
were observed. On the other hand, higher values of Camean, Caturn, collagen
maturity, mineral/matrix ratio, mineral maturity and crystal size index were
evidenced after sitagliptin treatment. Correlation analysis significantly linked 
the modifications of bone strength to changes in bone compositional parameters.
These results bring new light on the mode of action of sitagliptin on bone
physiology and demonstrate a benefit of DPP4i.
EOF
Background & Aims: Although dietary patterns have been linked to chronic diseases
such as cardiovascular disease, sparse data are available for a relationship
between dietary patterns and incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) in West Asian 
populations. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association of
population-based dietary pattern with the risk of incident CKD after 6.1 years of
follow-up.
Methods: At baseline, habitual dietary intakes of 1630 participants of the Tehran
Lipid and Glucose Study (TLGS) who were free of CKD was assessed by a valid and
reliable food-frequency questionnaire. The following three major dietary patterns
were identified using a principal components analysis: Lacto-vegetarian dietary
pattern, traditional Iranian dietary pattern, and high fat, high sugar dietary
pattern. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated, using the
Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Study equation and CKD was defined
as eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73m2. Odds ratio (OR) using multivariable logistic
regression was calculated for the association of incident CKD with the extracted 
dietary patterns.
Results: After adjusting for age, sex, smoking, total energy intake, physical
activity, body mass index, diabetes, and hypertension the OR for participants in 
the highest compared with those in the lowest tertile of the lacto-vegetarian
dietary pattern was 0.57 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.41 to 0.80,
P-trend = 0.002). In contrast, the high fat, high sugar dietary pattern was
positively associated with the incidence of CKD (OR for the third tertile
compared with first tertile: 1.46; 95% CI: 1.03-2.09; P-trend = 0.036).
Traditional Iranian dietary pattern was not associated with incident CKD.
Conclusion: The high fat, high sugar dietary pattern was associated with
significantly increased (46%) odds of incident CKD, whereas a lacto-vegetarian
dietary pattern may be protective against the occurrence of CKD by 43%.
EOF
Background: Obesity is a risk factor for diseases including type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM) and cardiovascular disorders. Diabetes itself contributes to
cardiac damage. Thus, studying cardiovascular events and establishing therapeutic
intervention in the period of type T2DM onset and manifestation are of highest
importance. Mitochondrial dysfunction is one of the pathophysiological mechanisms
leading to impaired cardiac function. Methods: An adequate animal model for
studying pathophysiology of T2DM is the New Zealand Obese (NZO) mouse. These mice
were maintained on a high-fat diet (HFD) without carbohydrates for 13 weeks
followed by 4 week HFD with carbohydrates. NZO mice developed severe obesity and 
only male mice developed manifest T2DM. We determined cardiac phenotypes and
mitochondrial function as well as cardiomyocyte signaling in this model. Results:
The development of an obese phenotype and T2DM in male mice was accompanied by an
impaired systolic function as judged by echocardiography and MyH6/7 expression.
Moreover, the mitochondrial function only in male NZO hearts was significantly
reduced and ERK1/2 and AMPK protein levels were altered. Conclusions: This is the
first report demonstrating that the cardiac phenotype in male diabetic NZO mice
is associated with impaired cardiac energy function and signaling events.
EOF
Higher dietary intakes of saturated fatty acid increase the risk of developing
Alzheimer's disease and dementia, and even in people without diabetes higher
glucose levels may be a risk factor for dementia. The mechanisms causing neuronal
dysfunction and dementia by consuming high-fat diet degrading the integrity of
the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has been suggested but are not yet fully
understood, and metabolic state of the brain by this type of insult is still
veiled. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of high-fat
diet on the brain metabolism by a multimodal imaging method using the
hyperpolarizedcarbon 13 (13C)-pyruvate magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and
dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging in conjunction with the biochemical assay
and the behavior test in a mouse model fed high-fat diet (HFD). In mice were fed 
60% HFD for 6 months, hyperpolarized [1-13C] pyruvate MR spectroscopy showed
decreased perfusion (p < 0.01) and increased conversion from pyruvate to lactate 
(p < 0.001) in the brain. The hippocampus and striatum showed the highest
conversion ratio. The functional integrity of the blood-brain barrier tested by
dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging showed no difference to the control. Lactate
was increased in the cortex (p < 0.01) and striatum (p < 0.05), while PDH
activity was decreased in the cortex (p < 0.01) and striatum (p < 0.001) and the 
phosphorylated PDH was increased in the striatum (p < 0.05). Mice fed HFD showed 
less efficiency in learning memory compared with control (p < 0.05). To determine
whether hyperpolarized 13C-pyruvate magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy could
detect a much earier event in the brain. Mice fed HFD for 3 months did not show a
detectable cognitive decline in water maze based learning memory. Hyperpolarized 
[1-13C] pyruvate MR spectroscopy showed increased lactate conversion (P < .001), 
but no difference in cerebral perfusion. These results suggest that the increased
hyperpolarized [1-13C] lactate signal in the brain of HFD-fed mice represent that
altered metabolic alteration toward to glycolysis and hypoperfusion by the
long-term metabolic stress by HFD further promote to glycolysis. The
hyperpolarized [1-13C] pyruvate MR spectroscopy can be used to monitor the brain 
metabolism and will provide information helpful to understand the disease
process.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Hyperlipidemia, with an increasing of prevalence, has become one of
the common metabolic diseases in companion animal clinic. Aspirin eugenol ester
(AEE) is a novel compound that exhibits efficacious anti-hyperlipidemia
activities. However, its mechanisms are still not completely known. The objective
of present study was to investigate the intervention effects of AEE on cecal
contents metabonomics profile and microbiota in hyperlipidemia rats.
RESULTS: Three groups of rats were fed with a control diet, or high fat diet
(HFD) containing or not AEE. The results showed the beneficial effects of AEE in 
HFD-fed rats such as the reducing of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and total
cholesterol (TCH). Distinct changes in metabonomics profile of cecal contents
were observed among control, model and AEE groups. HFD-induced alterations of
eight metabolites in cecal contents mainly related with purine metabolism,
linoleic acid metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, sphingolipid metabolism
and pyrimidine metabolism were reversed by AEE treatment. Principal coordinate
analysis (PCoA) and cluster analysis of microbiota showed altered patterns with
distinct differences in AEE group versus model group, indicating that AEE
treatment improved the negative effects caused by HFD on cecal microbiota. In
addition, the correction analysis revealed the possible link between the
identified metabolites and cecal microbiota.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed regulation effects of AEE on cecal contents
metabonomics profile and microbiota, which could provide information to reveal
the possible underlying mechanism of AEE on hyperlipidemia treatment.
EOF
The natural compound berberine has been reported to exhibit anti-diabetic
activity and to improve disordered lipid metabolism. In our previous study, we
found that such compounds upregulate expression of sirtuin 1-a key molecule in
caloric restriction, it is, therefore, of great interest to examine the
lipid-lowering activity of berberine in combination with a sirtuin 1 activator
resveratrol. Our results showed that combination of berberine with resveratrol
had enhanced hypolipidemic effects in high fat diet-induced mice and was able to 
decrease the lipid accumulation in adipocytes to a level significantly lower than
that in monotherapies. In the high fat diet-induced hyperlipidemic mice,
combination of berberine (30 mg/kg/day, oral) with resveratrol (20 mg/kg/day,
oral) reduced serum total cholesterol by 27.4% ± 2.2%, and low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol by 31.6% ± 3.2%, which was more effective than that of
the resveratrol (8.4% ± 2.3%, 6.6% ± 2.1%) or berberine (10.5% ± 1.95%, 9.8% ±
2.58%) monotherapy (p < 0.05 for both). In 3T3-L1 adipocytes, the treatment of 12
µmol/L or 20 µmol/L berberine combined with 25 µmol/L resveratrol showed a more
significant inhibition of lipid accumulation observed by Oil red O stain compared
with individual compounds. Moreover, resveratrol could increase the amount of
intracellular berberine in hepatic L02 cells. In addition, the combination of
berberine with resveratrol significantly increases the low-density-lipoprotein
receptor expression in HepG2 cells to a level about one-fold higher in comparison
to individual compound. These results implied that the enhanced effect of the
combination of berberine with resveratrol on lipid-lowering may be associated
with upregulation of low-density-lipoprotein receptor, and could be an effective 
therapy for hyperlipidemia in some obese-associated disease, such as type II
diabetes and metabolic syndrome.
EOF
Polyphenols from the Lonicera caerulea L. berry have shown protective effects on 
experimental non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in our previous studies.
As endotoxins from gut bacteria are considered to be the major trigger of
inflammation in NAFLD, this study aims to clarify the regulatory effects of L.
caerulea L. berry polyphenols (LCBP) on gut microbiota in a high fat diet
(HFD)-induced mouse model. C57BL/6N mice were fed with a normal diet, HFD, or HFD
containing 0.5⁻1% of LCBP for 45 days. The results revealed that supplementation 
with LCBP decreased significantly the levels of IL-2, IL-6, MCP-1, and TNF-α in
serum, as well as endotoxin levels in both serum and liver in HFD-fed mice. Fecal
microbiota characterization by high throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed 
that a HFD increased the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, and LCBP reduced this
ratio by increasing the relative abundance of Bacteroides, Parabacteroides, and
another two undefined bacterial genera belonging to the order of Bacteroidales
and family of Rikenellaceae, and also by decreasing the relative abundance of six
bacterial genera belonging to the phylum Firmicutes, including Staphylococcus,
Lactobacillus, Ruminococcus, and Oscillospira. These data demonstrated that LCBP 
potentially attenuated inflammation in NAFLD through modulation of gut
microbiota, especially the ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes.
EOF
Intestinal microbiota and their metabolites are strongly associated with host
physiology. Developments in DNA sequencing and mass spectrometry technologies
have allowed us to obtain additional data that enhance our understanding of the
interactions among microbiota, metabolites, and the host. However, the strategies
used to analyze these datasets are not yet well developed. Here, we describe an
original analytical strategy, metabologenomics, consisting of an integrated
analysis of mass spectrometry-based metabolome data and
high-throughput-sequencing-based microbiome data. Using this approach, we
compared data obtained from C57BL/6J mice fed an American diet (AD), which
contained higher amounts of fat and fiber, to those from mice fed control rodent 
diet. The feces of the AD mice contained higher amounts of butyrate and
propionate, and higher relative abundances of Oscillospira and Ruminococcus. The 
amount of butyrate positively correlated with the abundance of these bacterial
genera. Furthermore, integrated analysis of the metabolome data and the predicted
metagenomic data from Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction
of Unobserved States (PICRUSt) indicated that the abundance of genes associated
with butyrate metabolism positively correlated with butyrate amounts. Thus, our
metabologenomic approach is expected to provide new insights and understanding of
intestinal metabolic dynamics in complex microbial ecosystems.
EOF
Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass (RYGB) remains one of the most effective options in
treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the underlying
mechanisms are not clear yet. Here, we evaluated the relationship among hepatic
mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR)-AKT2-insulin-induced gene 2 (Insig2)
signaling, lipogenic transcription factors and lipid synthesis enzymes in obese
mice with or without RYGB operation. Hepatic mTOR activity and Insig2a were
stimulated, while AKT2, sterol response element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c),
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), lipogenic genes such as
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and fatty acid synthase (FAS) were decreased by
Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass in both DMSO and rapamycin treated diet-induced obese
(DIO) mice. Increment of hepatic lipogenesis and decline of mTOR signaling
induced by rapamycin were significantly reversed by RYGB in DIO mice. RYGB
significantly improved high-fat diet- and rapamycin- induced hepatic steatosis by
suppression of de novo lipogenesis. Administration of adenovirus-mediated p70
ribosomal protein subunit 6 kinase 1 (Ad-S6K1) from tail vein improved hepatic
steatosis. Infusion of Ad-S6K1 suppressed AKT2, SREBP1c, PPARγ, and
lipogenesis-related genes while stimulating Insig2a in DIO mice. Ad-S6K1
decreased oleic acid-induced lipid deposition in primary mouse hepatocytes. Our
results suggest that mTOR-AKT2-Insig2 signaling pathway contributes to the
improvement effect of RYGB on hepatic steatosis induced by high-fat diet.
EOF
Ketogenesis is a metabolic process wherein ketone bodies are produced from the
breakdown of fatty acids. In humans, fatty acid catabolism results in the
production of acetyl-CoA which can then be used to synthesize three ketone
bodies: acetoacetate, acetone, and β-hydroxybutyrate. Ketogenesis occurs at a
higher rate in situations of low blood glucose, such as during fasting, heavy
alcohol consumption, and in situations of low insulin, as well as in individuals 
who follow a 'ketogenic diet' consisting of low carbohydrate and high fat intake.
This diet has various therapeutic indications, including reduction of seizure
likelihood in epileptic patients and alcohol withdrawal syndrome. However, the
mechanisms underlying these therapeutic benefits are still unclear, with studies 
suggesting various mechanisms such as a shift in energy production in the brain, 
effects on neurotransmitter production, or effects on various protein targets.
Two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiology in Xenopus laevis oocytes was used 
to investigate the actions of ketone bodies on three ionotropic receptors: GABAA,
glycine, and NMDA receptors. While physiologically-relevant concentrations of
acetone have little effect on inhibitory GABA or glycine receptors,
β-hydroxybutyrate inhibits the effects of agonists of these receptors at
concentrations achieved in vivo. Additionally, both acetone and β-hydroxybutyrate
act as inhibitors of glutamate at the excitatory NMDA receptor. Due to the role
of hyperexcitability in the pathogenesis of epilepsy and alcohol withdrawal, the 
inhibitory actions of acetone and β-hydroxybutyrate at NMDA receptors may
underlie the therapeutic benefit of a ketogenic diet for these disorders.
EOF
Recent studies have suggested that maternal high-fat (HF) diet caused
inflammation changes in adipose tissue; however, it remains unclear if maternal
diet intervention before pregnancy rescues such effects in offspring. To address 
this question, female mice were continued on a normal-fat (NF group), or a HF
diet (HF group) or transitioned from a HF diet to a NF diet at 1 (H1N group), 5
(H5N group) or 9 weeks (H9N group) prior to pregnancy. Among the three
intervention groups, the H9N offspring displayed less and steady body weight
gain, and maintained glucose tolerance, whereas the H1N and H5N offspring showed 
exacerbate these phenotypes. The H1N and H5N, but not the H9N offspring,
displayed adipocyte hypertrophy associated with increased expression of genes
involved in fat deposition. The H1N and H5N, but not the H9N adipose tissue,
displayed increased macrophage infiltration with enhanced expression of
inflammatory cytokine genes. In addition, overactivation of the NF-κB and the JNK
signaling were observed in the H1N adipose tissue. Overall, our study showed that
a long-term but not a short- or medium-term diet intervention before pregnancy
released offspring adipose tissue inflammation induced by maternal HF diet, which
adds details in our understanding how the maternal environment either promotes or
discourages onset of disease in offspring. Clinically, this study is of great
value for providing evidence in the design of clinical trials to evaluate the
urgently required intervention strategies to minimize the intergenerational cycle
of obesity.
EOF
Dietary fibers, an integral part of the human diet, require the enzymatic
activity of the gut microbiota for complete metabolism into short chain fatty
acids (SCFAs). SCFAs are important modulators of host metabolism and physiology
and act in part as signaling molecules by activating G-protein coupled receptors 
(GPR) such as GPR41. Flaxseed fibers improve metabolism in rodents and mice, but 
their fermentation profiles, effects on enteroendocrine cells and associated
metabolic benefits are unknown. We fed GPR41-RFP mice, an enteroendocrine
reporter mouse strain, chow, high fat diet (HFD) or HFD supplemented either with 
10% non-fermentable fiber cellulose or fermentable flaxseed fibers for 12 weeks
to assess changes in cecal gut microbiota, enteroendocrine cell transcriptome in 
ileum and colon, and physiological parameters. We observed that flaxseed fibers
restructured the gut microbiota and promoted proliferation of the genera
Bifidobacterium and Akkermansia compared with HFD. The shifts in cecal bacterial 
composition restored levels of the SCFAs butyrate similar to the chow diet,
resulting in colonic, but not ileal, enteroendocrine cell transcriptional changes
in genes related to cell cycle, mRNA and protein transport compared with HFD.
Consistent with effects on enteroendocrine functions, flaxseed fibers also
protected mice from diet-induced obesity, potentially by preventing reduction in 
energy expenditure induced by HFD. Our study shows that flaxseed fibers alter
cecal microbial ecology, are fermented to SCFAs in cecum, and modulate
enteroendocrine cell transcriptome in colon, which may contribute to their
metabolically favorable phenotype.
EOF
Prostaglandin E2 receptor 4 (EP4 receptor)-associated protein (EPRAP) is a key
molecule in suppressing inflammatory responses in macrophages. EPRAP is expressed
not only in macrophages, but also in hepatocytes; however, the role of EPRAP in
hepatocytes has not yet been defined. In order to we examined the physiological
role of hepatic EPRAP in mice, we performed the glucose tolerance test (GTT) and 
the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp were performed in high-fat sucrose diet
(HFSD)-fed wild-type (WT) and Eprap-null mice. We evaluated the contribution of
EPRAP to gluconeogenesis by pyruvate tolerance test and primary hepatocyte
experiments. Furthermore, lentivirus expressing Eprap- specific small-hairpin RNA
was injected to db/db mice.HFSD-fed Eprap-null mice had significantly lower blood
glucose levels than HFSD-fed WT mice. Eprap-null mice also had low glucose levels
after fasting or pyruvic acid injection. Moreover, primary hepatocytes from
Eprap-deficient mice showed decreased glucose production, and lower expression of
the Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pepck)and Glucose 6-phosphatase
(G6pase)genes. Lentivirus-mediated hepatic Eprapsuppression decreased glucose
levels and the expression of gluconeogenic genes in db/db mice. We conclude that 
EPRAP regulates gluconeogenesis in hepatocytes and is associated with
hyperglycemia in diabetic mice. Our data suggest that suppression of EPRAP could 
be a novel strategy for the treatment of diabetes.
EOF
Innate immune activation contributes to the transition from nonalcoholic fatty
liver to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Stimulator of IFN genes (STING,
also referred to Tmem173) is a universal receptor that recognizes released DNA
and triggers innate immune activation. In this work, we investigated the role of 
STING in the progression of NASH in mice. Both methionine- and choline-deficient 
diet (MCD) and high-fat diet (HFD) were used to induce NASH in mice. Strikingly, 
STING deficiency attenuated steatosis, fibrosis, and inflammation in livers in
both murine models of NASH. Additionally, STING deficiency increased fasting
glucose levels in mice independently of insulin, but mitigated HFD-induced
insulin resistance and weight gain and reduced levels of cholesterol,
triglycerides, and LDL in serum; it also enhanced levels of HDL. The
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from hepatocytes of HFD-fed mice induced TNF-α and IL-6
expression in cultured Kupffer cells (KCs), which was attenuated by STING
deficiency or pretreatment with BAY11-7082 (an NF-κB inhibitor). Finally, chronic
exposure to 5,6-dimethylxanthenone-4-acetic acid (DMXAA, a STING agonist) led to 
hepatic steatosis and inflammation in WT mice, but not in STING-deficient mice.
We proposed that STING functions as an mtDNA sensor in the KCs of liver under
lipid overload and induces NF-κB-dependent inflammation in NASH.
EOF
We aimed to evaluate the impact of maternal exercise training on the offspring
metabolism and body size caused by father obesity. C57BL/6 male 4-week-old mice
were fed a high-fat diet (HF father) or control diet (C father), while equal age 
female mice were fed only a C diet and were separated into two groups: trained (T
mother) and non-trained (NT mother), and at 12 weeks of age mice were mated. A
continuous swimming protocol was applied for 10 weeks (before and during
gestation), and offspring were followed since weaning until sacrifice (at 12
weeks of age). HF father, compared to C father, showed obesity, elevated total
cholesterol (TC) and triglycerides (TG), and glucose intolerance. Both sexes
HF/NT offspring showed hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance and high levels of TC
and TG, without obesity. However, HF/T offspring showed data close to C/NT,
demonstrating the beneficial effect of maternal exercise in the offspring of
obese fathers.
EOF
Introduction: High levels of plasmatic branched-chain amino acids (BCAA),
commonly used as dietary supplements, are linked to metabolic risk factors for
Alzheimer's disease (AD). BCAA directly influence amino acid transport to the
brain and, therefore, neurotransmitter levels. We thus investigated the impact of
BCAA on AD neuropathology in a mouse model.
Methods: 3xTg-AD mice were fed either a control diet or a high-fat diet from 6 to
18 months of age. For the last 2 months, dietary BCAA content was adjusted to
high (+50%), normal (+0%), or low (-50%).
Results: Mice fed a BCAA-supplemented high-fat diet displayed higher tau
neuropathology and only four out of 13 survived. Mice on the low-BCAA diet showed
higher threonine and tryptophan cortical levels while performing better on the
novel object recognition task.
Discussion: These preclinical data underscore a potential risk of combining
high-fat and high BCAA consumption, and possible benefits from BCAA restriction
in AD.
EOF
Advances in high-throughput sequencing have facilitated remarkable insights into 
the diversity and functioning of naturally occurring microbes; however, current
sequencing strategies are insufficient to reveal physiological states of
microbial communities associated with protein translation dynamics. Transfer RNAs
(tRNAs) are core components of protein synthesis machinery, present in all living
cells, and are phylogenetically tractable, which make them ideal targets to gain 
physiological insights into environmental microbes. Here we report a direct
sequencing approach, tRNA-seq, and a software suite, tRNA-seq-tools, to recover
sequences, abundance profiles, and post-transcriptional modifications of
microbial tRNA transcripts. Our analysis of cecal samples using tRNA-seq
distinguishes high-fat- and low-fat-fed mice in a comparable fashion to 16S
ribosomal RNA gene amplicons, and reveals taxon- and diet-dependent variations in
tRNA modifications. Our results provide taxon-specific in situ insights into the 
dynamics of tRNA gene expression and post-transcriptional modifications within
complex environmental microbiomes.
EOF
Advanced age and unhealthy dietary habits contribute to the increasing incidence 
of obesity and type 2 diabetes. These metabolic disorders, which are often
accompanied by oxidative stress and compromised nitric oxide (NO) signaling,
increase the risk of adverse cardiovascular complications and development of
fatty liver disease. Here, we investigated the therapeutic effects of dietary
nitrate, which is found in high levels in green leafy vegetables, on liver
steatosis associated with metabolic syndrome. Dietary nitrate fuels a
nitrate-nitrite-NO signaling pathway, which prevented many features of metabolic 
syndrome and liver steatosis that developed in mice fed a high-fat diet, with or 
without combination with an inhibitor of NOS (l-NAME). These favorable effects of
nitrate were absent in germ-free mice, demonstrating the central importance of
host microbiota in bioactivation of nitrate. In a human liver cell line (HepG2)
and in a validated hepatic 3D model with primary human hepatocyte spheroids,
nitrite treatment reduced the degree of metabolically induced steatosis (i.e.,
high glucose, insulin, and free fatty acids), as well as drug-induced steatosis
(i.e., amiodarone). Mechanistically, the salutary metabolic effects of nitrate
and nitrite can be ascribed to nitrite-derived formation of NO species and
activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase, where xanthine oxidoreductase is proposed
to mediate the reduction of nitrite. Boosting this nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway
results in attenuation of NADPH oxidase-derived oxidative stress and stimulation 
of AMP-activated protein kinase and downstream signaling pathways regulating
lipogenesis, fatty acid oxidation, and glucose homeostasis. These findings may
have implications for novel nutrition-based preventive and therapeutic strategies
against liver steatosis associated with metabolic dysfunction.
EOF
Diabetes and the related disease metabolic syndrome are epidemic in the United
States, in part due to a shift in diet and decrease in physical exercise. PAS
kinase is a sensory protein kinase associated with many of the phenotypes of
these diseases, including hepatic triglyceride accumulation and metabolic
dysregulation in male mice placed on a high-fat diet. Herein we provide the first
characterization of the effects of western diet (high-fat high-sugar, HFHS) on
Per-Arnt-Sim kinase mice (PASK-/-) and the first characterization of both male
and female PASK-/- mice. Soleus muscle from the PASK-/- male mice displayed a
2-fold higher oxidative phosphorylation capacity than wild type (WT) on the
normal chow diet. PASK-/- male mice were also resistant to hepatic triglyceride
accumulation on the HFHS diet, displaying a 2.7-fold reduction in hepatic
triglycerides compared to WT mice on the HFHS diet. These effects on male hepatic
triglyceride were further explored through mass spectrometry-based lipidomics.
The absence of PAS kinase was found to affect many of the 44 triglycerides
analyzed, preventing hepatic triglyceride accumulation in response to the HFHS
diet. In contrast, the female mice showed resistance to hepatic triglyceride
accumulation on the HFHS diet regardless of genotype, suggesting the effects of
PAS kinase may be masked.
EOF
As postmenopausal women experience a rapid increase in cardiovascular disease
(CVD) risk with an increase in abdominal fat, dietary interventions to reduce CVD
risk have been emphasized. This study was aimed at investigating the effect of a 
high-fat diet (HFD) in combination with an ovariectomy on liver and adipose
tissue fat metabolism. The efficacy of carnosic acid (CA) supplementation in the 
suppression of HFD- and ovariectomy-induced obesity was also evaluated.
Ovariectomized (OVX) or sham-operated mice at eight weeks of age were fed with a 
normal diet (ND), HFD, ND and 0.02% CA, or HFD and 0.02% CA for 12 weeks. All of 
the animals were sacrificed at the age of 20 weeks. The blood and tissue markers 
of the lipogenesis and adipocyte differentiation were measured. As expected,
ovariectomy decreased the uterus weight and serum 17β-estradiol concentration.
The HFD and ovariectomy significantly contributed to increases in the body weight
and total fat mass, which were effectively inhibited by CA supplementation. The
circulating concentrations of insulin, leptin, and TG (triglyceride) were
significantly higher in the HFD group, and the concentrations were two to five
times higher in the OVX and HFD group compared with those of the ND group. The CA
supplementation significantly lowered the insulin, leptin, and TG concentrations 
in the OVX and HFD mice. The hepatic protein expressions of pAMPK and pACC were
up-regulated by CA supplementation in OVX mice fed either ND or HFD. The
expressions of hepatic SREBP1c and FAS mRNA were the highest in the OVX and HFD
group, which were suppressed by CA supplementation. The adipose tissue PPARγ,
aP2, and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) mRNA expressions were up-regulated by a HFD or 
ovariectomy, while they were significantly reduced in the mice fed a CA
supplemented diet. The TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA levels in the adipose tissue were
decreased by providing CA in the OVX groups. These results suggest that HFD and
ovariectomy independently contribute to body fat accumulation, and CA effectively
alleviated the ovariectomy-induced increases in lipogenesis and adipocyte
differentiation. Further human trials are required in order to evaluate the
efficacy of rosemary-derive CA as natural anti-adipogenic compounds, especially
in postmenopausal women.
EOF
Background Hyperuricemia is a recognised risk factor for the development of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This study aims to investigate the
therapeutic effect of resveratrol (RES) on the treatment of hyperuricemia-related
NAFLD in rats and the underlying mechanisms. Methods NAFLD with hyperuricemia was
induced in rats using high-yeast high-fat diet containing potassium oxonate. The 
impact of RES on liver pathology, and the expression of silent information
regulator 1 (SIRT1), fork-head box class O-3a (FOXO3a), and nuclear factor kappa 
B subunit p65 (NF-κB p65) was analysed. Results RES significantly improved liver 
histology and reversed serum biochemical abnormalities. At the molecular level,
RES improved insulin resistance (IR), inhibited hepatic steatosis, reduced
oxidative stress and liver inflammation, and these effects were likely mediated
through SIRT1-mediated FOXO3a phosphorylation and NF-κB P65 deacetylation.
Conclusions Resveratrol is a promising agent for the treatment of
hyperuricemia-related NAFLD through activating SIRT1 pathways.
EOF
High-fat diet-induced obesity is associated with metabolic disorders. The Brazil 
nut has bioactive substances and has been used to control the damage caused by
obesity in several organs. The work intended to show the damage caused by
high-fat diet in the bladder wall and if the Brazil nut oil added to the diet
could ameliorate or reverse this effect. Sixty-day-old rats were divided into two
groups: C (control, n = 30) and HF (high-fat, n = 30) diets. At 90 days, 10
animals of each group were sacrificed. The others were divided into 4 groups: C
and HF (animals that maintained their previous diet, n = 10 for each group) and C
/ Bno and HF / Bno (animals whose control or high-fat diet was supplemented by
Brazil nut oil, n = 10 for each group). Sacrifice occurred at 120 days, and the
bladders were removed and analyzed. Epithelial height was increased in the HF
compared to the C group. In contrast, the C / Bno had a lower epithelial height
compared to the others. The percentage of collagen between the detrusor muscle
fibers was significantly greater in C / Bno, HF and HF / Bno than in control
group. The HF had a larger muscle fiber diameter than the C group, while the C / 
Bno presented lower values than the HF and HF / Bno groups. HF diets induced
bladder wall damage. These changes in the rat's bladder wall were partially
reversed by the Bno.
EOF
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to examine whether and how postnatal high-fat diet
had additional impact on promoting vascular dysfunction in the offspring exposed 
to prenatal hypoxia.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to
hypoxia (10.5% oxygen) or normoxia (21% O2 ) groups from gestation days 5-21. A
subset of male offspring was placed on a high-fat diet (HF, 45% fat) from
4-16 weeks of age. Prenatal hypoxia induced a decrease in birth weight. In
offspring-fed HF diet, prenatal hypoxia was associated with increased fasting
plasma triglyceride, total cholesterol, free fatty acids, and low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol. Compared with the other three groups, prenatal hypoxic
offspring with high-fat diet showed a significant increase in blood pressure,
phenylephrine-mediated vasoconstrictions, L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ (Cav1.2)
channel currents, and elevated mRNA and protein expression of Cav1.2 α1 subunit
in mesenteric arteries or myocytes. The large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BK) 
channels currents and the BK channel units (β1, not α-subunits) were
significantly increased in mesenteric arteries or myocytes in HF offspring
independent of prenatal hypoxia factor.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrated that prenatal hypoxia followed by postnatal 
HF caused vascular dysfunction through ion channel remodelling in myocytes.
EOF
Concerns have been raised about whether preclinical models sufficiently mimic
molecular disease processes observed in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
patients, bringing into question their translational value in studies of
therapeutic interventions in the process of NASH/fibrosis. We investigated the
representation of molecular disease patterns characteristic for human NASH in
high-fat diet (HFD)-fed Ldlr-/-.Leiden mice and studied the effects of
obeticholic acid (OCA) on these disease profiles. Multiplatform serum metabolomic
profiles and genome-wide liver transcriptome from HFD-fed Ldlr-/-.Leiden mice
were compared with those of NASH patients. Mice were profiled at the stage of
mild (24 weeks HFD) and severe (34 weeks HFD) fibrosis, and after OCA
intervention (24-34 weeks; 10 mg/kg/day). Effects of OCA were analyzed
histologically, biochemically, by immunohistochemistry, using deuterated water
technology (de novo collagen formation), and by its effect on the human-based
transcriptomics and metabolomics signatures. The transcriptomics and metabolomics
profile of Ldlr-/-.Leiden mice largely reflected the molecular signature of NASH 
patients. OCA modulated the expression of these molecular profiles and quenched
specific proinflammatory-profibrotic pathways. OCA attenuated specific facets of 
cellular inflammation in liver (F4/80-positive cells) and reduced crown-like
structures in adipose tissue. OCA reduced de novo collagen formation and
attenuated further progression of liver fibrosis, but did not reduce fibrosis
below the level before intervention. Conclusion: HFD-fed Ldlr-/-.Leiden mice
recapitulate molecular transcriptomic and metabolomic profiles of NASH patients, 
and these signatures are modulated by OCA. Intervention with OCA in developing
fibrosis reduces collagen deposition and de novo synthesis but does not resolve
already manifest fibrosis in the period studied. These data show that human
molecular signatures can be used to evaluate the translational character of
preclinical models for NASH.
EOF
Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), an essential regulator of
fibrinolysis, is increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of metabolic
disorders, such as obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Pharmacologic inhibition of PAI-1 is emerging as a highly promising therapeutic
strategy for obesity and its sequelae. Given the well-established profibrotic
function of PAI-1, we considered whether PAI-1 may serve as a target for
antifibrotic therapy in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We therefore
determined the effect of genetic Pai-1 deletion and pharmacologic PAI-1
inhibition on the development of NASH-related fibrosis in mice. Pai-1 knockout
(Pai-1 -/-) and wild-type control (Pai-1 +/+) mice were fed a
high-fat/high-cholesterol high-sugar (HFHS) diet or a methionine- and
choline-deficient (MCD) diet to induce steatohepatitis with fibrosis. PAI-1 was
pharmacologically inhibited using the small molecule inhibitor TM5441 in
wild-type C57BL/6 mice fed an HFHS or MCD diet. Either genetic deletion of Pai-1 
or pharmacologic inhibition of PAI-1 attenuated MCD diet-induced hepatic
steatosis but did not prevent hepatic inflammation or fibrosis. Targeted
inhibition of PAI-1 conferred transient protection from HFHS diet-induced obesity
and hepatic steatosis, an effect that was lost with prolonged exposure to the
obesigenic diet. Neither genetic deletion of Pai-1 nor pharmacologic inhibition
of PAI-1 prevented HFHS diet-induced hepatic inflammation or fibrosis.
Conclusion: Pai-1 regulates hepatic lipid accumulation but does not promote NASH 
progression. The PAI-1 inhibitor TM5441 effectively attenuates diet-induced
obesity and hepatic steatosis but does not prevent NASH-related fibrosis in mice.
EOF
Background: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic and
progressive liver disease with an increased risk of morbidity and mortality.
However, so far no specific pharmacotherapy has been approved. Gynostemma
pentaphylla (Thunb.) Makino (GP) is a traditional Chinese medicine that is widely
used against hyperlipemia as well as hyperglycemia. This study aims to evaluate
the effect of GP on NAFLD and explore the possible mechanism.
Methods: High-fat-diet induced NAFLD mice model were orally administrated with GP
at dose of 11.7 g/kg or equivalent volume of distilled water once a day for
16 weeks. Body weight, food intake and energy expenditure were assessed to
evaluate the general condition of mice. The triglycerides, total cholesterol
content in the liver and liver histopathology, serum lipid profile and serum
insulin level, fecal microbiome, hepatic microRNAs and relative target genes were
analyzed.
Results: Mice in GP treatment group displayed improved hepatic triglycerides
content with lower lipid droplet in hepatocyte and NAFLD activity score. Besides,
GP treatment altered the composition of gut microbiota and the relative abundance
of some of the key components that are implicated in metabolic disorders,
especially phylum Firmicutes (Eubacterium, Blautia, Clostridium and
Lactobacillus). Several hepatic microRNAs were downregulated by GP treatment such
as miR-130a, miR-34a, miR-29a, miR-199a, among which the expression miR-34a was
altered by more than four-fold compared to that of HFD group (3:14). The
correlation analysis showed that miR-34a was strongly related to the change of
gut microbiota especially phylum Firmicutes (R = 0.796). Additionally, the target
genes of miR-34a (HNF4α, PPARα and PPARα) were restored by GP both in mRNA and
protein levels.
Conclusion: Our results suggested that GP modulated the gut microbiota and
suppressed hepatic miR-34a, which was associated with the amelioration of hepatic
steatosis.
EOF
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are the most commonly used cells in tissue
engineering and regenerative medicine. MSCs can promote host tissue repair
through several different mechanisms including donor cell engraftment, release of
cell signaling factors, and the transfer of healthy organelles to the host. In
the present study, we examine the specific impacts of MSCs on mitochondrial
morphology and function in host tissues. Employing in vitro cell culture of
inherited mitochondrial disease and an in vivo animal experimental model of
low-grade inflammation (high fat feeding), we show human-derived MSCs to alter
mitochondrial function. MSC co-culture with skin fibroblasts from mitochondrial
disease patients rescued aberrant mitochondrial morphology from a fission state
to a more fused appearance indicating an effect of MSC co-culture on host cell
mitochondrial network formation. In vivo experiments confirmed mitochondrial
abundance and mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates were elevated in host
tissues following MSC treatment. Furthermore, microarray profiling identified 226
genes with differential expression in the liver of animals treated with MSC, with
cellular signaling, and actin cytoskeleton regulation as key upregulated
processes. Collectively, our data indicate that MSC therapy rescues impaired
mitochondrial morphology, enhances host metabolic capacity, and induces
widespread host gene shifting. These results highlight the potential of MSCs to
modulate mitochondria in both inherited and pathological disease states.
EOF
Introduction: Population aging generally accompanies an increase in chronic
noncommunicable diseases, such as metabolic syndrome (MS). Nursing homes have
provided a solution for the decreased ability of elderly individuals for
self-care and familial difficulties in meeting the health care needs of elderly
individuals.
Purpose: The aim of the present study was to determine the frequency of MS and
its associated factors in elderly individuals living in nursing homes.
Patients and methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted with 202
institutionalized elderly individuals. MS was diagnosed according to the National
Cholesterol Education Program - Adult Treatment Panel III criteria.
Sociodemographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors were assessed to verify their
association with MS by logistic regression.
Results: The MS frequency was 29.2%. The most frequent MS components were low
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (63.9%) and abdominal obesity (42.7%).
Factors associated with MS were female sex (prevalence ratio [PR]=2.16; 95% CI,
1.04-4.49), age-adjusted institutionalization time >50% (PR=2.38, 95% CI,
1.46-3.88), and high concentrations of interleukin-6 (PR=2.01; 95% CI, 1.21-3.32)
and tumor necrosis factor-α (PR=1.70; 95% CI, 1.05-2.77). Moreover, it was
verified that the likelihood of having MS was 1.85-fold higher (95% CI,
1.11-3.10) in the group with a diet characterized by very high energy, very low
fat, and high dietary fiber.
Conclusion: The occurrence of MS in institutionalized elderly individuals was
higher in females, and individuals with longer age-adjusted institutionalization 
time, higher concentrations of immunologic biomarkers, and a dietary intake
consisting of higher energy and fiber and lower total fat. The results of the
study are useful for guiding health care programs aimed at institutionalized
elderly individuals.
EOF
Objective To investigate the role of aliskiren (AL) in the angiotensinII/
angiotensin 1-7 (AngII/Ang1-7) signal pathway in renal tissue of diabetic
nephropathy (DN) rats. Methods 40 male SD rats were randomly divided into 4
groups including normal group, diabetes group, AL group and valsartan (Val)
group. Animal models of diabetes were induced by high fat diet combined with
small dose of streptozotocin injection. Rats in AL group were administered 50
mg/(kg.d) AL by gavage, and rats in Val group were administered 30 mg/(kg.d)Val
by gavage. 24-hour urine protein (24 h-UP) were observed by Coomassie blue
colorimetry at 2, 4 and 6 weeks after modeling, serum creatinine was detected by 
automatic biochemical analyser, kidney index [kidneys mass(g)/body mass (kg)] was
measured. HE and PAS staining were used to observe renal pathological changes.
Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of ACE2, MAS receptor,
AT1R and AT2R in the kidney. Results After 6 weeks of modeling, there was no
significant difference in creatinine level among groups. The levels of glucose,
24 h-UP and kidney index in diabetes group, AL group and Val group significantly 
increased. Compared with diabetes group, the levels of 24 h-UP and kidney index
were lower in AL group and Val group. Immunohistochemistry showed that the
expression of AT2R and ACE2 was lower and the expression of MAS receptor was
higher in AL group than diabetes group and Val group. Compared to normal group
and Val group, AT1R expression was significantly up-regulated in AL group,
without significant difference between diabetes group and AL group. Conclusion AL
down-regulates the expression of AT2R and ACE2, thus inhibits the AngII/ Ang1-7
signal axis and improves/alleviates the symptoms in diabetic rats.
EOF
Oxidative stress and inflammation play an important role in the chronic kidney
disease associated with obesity. Resveratrol (RSV) has been reported to exhibit a
wide range of biological activities including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory
properties. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of 
RSV on renal inflammation and oxidative stress in obese mice induced by high-fat 
diet. Male C57BL/6 mice were induced to have nephropathy associated obesity by
high-fat diet for 12 weeks. After 8 weeks of feeding, oral supplementation with
100 mg RSV/kg body weight/day was applied with the high-fat-diet feeding for
another 4 weeks. The results showed that RSV treatment protected against renal
damage induced by high-fat diet, as evidenced by the decreased serum creatinine
and urea nitrogen levels, alleviation of glomerular damage, and tubular
vacuolization. In addition, RSV enhanced the antioxidant enzyme activity;
improved the expression of genes related to inflammation; and decreased the
malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interleukin-6 concentrations in the
kidney of high-fat-diet mice. In conclusion, RSV could alleviate renal damage in 
obese mice induced by high-fat diet via suppressing inflammation and oxidative
stress.
EOF
PURPOSE: Oxidized LDL cholesterol (oxLDL) has been considered as a sensor of
oxidative stress (OS) in childhood obesity. We integrated and related our oxLDL
existing results previously assessed in overweight/obese children to lifestyle
variables to investigate OS-related lifestyle variables.
METHODS: 178 Caucasian children/adolescents have been evaluated and according to 
BMI percentiles have been classified as normal weight (BMI < 75th); overweight
(BMI 75-97th) and obese (BMI > 97th). Serum oxLDL levels have been measured. The 
dietary habits and physical activity have been also assessed.
RESULTS: No differences between normal weight and overweight/obese children were 
detected according to the total score of dietary habits section. Normal weight
subjects reported a higher total physical activity score (p = 0.001) compared to 
overweight/ obese children. No correlation between oxLDL and total dietary habits
and physical activity scores was noted. Increased oxLDL in subjects
drinking < 1 L/day of water (p = 0.022) and in daily consumers of chocolate
drinks at breakfast (p = 0.029) was observed, while a decreased oxLDL was
reported in subjects consuming a breakfast based mainly on fruits (p = 0.004).
Moreover, "high-fat diet" and "always eating a dessert at the end of the meal"
were correlated with increased oxLDL with a trend towards significance. As
regards physical activity, no correlations were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Diet and physical activity may not have an immediate impact on OS
response in children with or without obesity. Unhealthy lifestyle, including
increased fat, simple sugar intake, poor water intake, emerged as external
exposome predictors of OS, that may be monitored to improve health status.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, case-control analytic studies.
EOF
The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease, a chronic neurodegenerative condition, is 
increasing as is the need for effective treatments and preventions. The
underlying pathology of Alzheimer's is not yet fully understood, so existing
research has focused on understanding the prominent features of the disease.
These include amyloid plaques, which accumulate in the brains of those with
Alzheimer's disease; impaired glucose metabolism; and neuronal cell death.
Emerging evidence suggests that a low-carbohydrate, high-fat ketogenic diet may
help to mitigate the damage associated with these pathologies. The ketogenic diet
could alleviate the effects of impaired glucose metabolism by providing ketones
as a supplementary energy source. In addition, this diet may help to reduce the
accumulation of amyloid plaques while reversing amyloid β toxicity. Research has 
begun to identify early underlying mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease that could
be targeted by new prevention strategies. Glycation of the ApoE protein leads to 
impaired transportation of important lipids, including cholesterol, to the brain,
resulting in lipid deficiencies that could explain progression to the later
pathologies of the disease. In this review, we hypothesize that the ketogenic
diet could be an effective treatment and prevention for Alzheimer's disease, but 
both ketone production and carbohydrate restriction may be needed to achieve
this.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a leading cause of chronic liver disease in 
western countries. The current study aimed to detect and evaluate lipidomic
biomarkers for early detection of NAFLD as well as the potential efficiency of
methanolic extract of Eclipta prostrata (E. prostrata) on disease management. In 
this study, Phytochemical screening of E. prostrata methanolic extract was
performed using HPLC. NAFLD was induced in albino rats using a high-fat diet
together with cholesterol and cholic acid. Comprehensive lipidomic analyses on
sera from rats bearing NAFLD as well as normal healthy animals were carried out
based on GCMS and multivariate data analysis. The results showed that high doses 
(300&200 mg/kg.BW) of E. prostrata extract exhibited significant improvement in
liver enzymes (ALT & AST) and lipid profile [total cholesterol (TC),
triacylglycerides (TAGs), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and
low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C)] in rats bearing NAFLD. Glycerol,
linoleic acid, arachidonic acid and cholest-5-en-3-ol (3β) acetate were detected 
as lipidomic biomarkers for early detection of NAFLD in rats' sera. Furthermore, 
E. prostrata extract showed a significant amelioration in the levels of these
metabolic biomarkers in both protective and treated groups. These finding
devoutly recommend using of lipidomic biomarkers for early detection of NAFLD and
E. prostrata could be used as a protective agent as well as ameliorate this
disease through its probable action on the fore-mentioned metabolites.
EOF
Cerebral small vessel disease has been linked to cognitive, psychiatric and
physical disabilities, especially in the elderly. However, the underlying
pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, largely due to the limited
accessibility of these small vessels in the live brain. Here, we report an
intravital imaging and analysis platform for high-resolution, quantitative and
comprehensive characterization of pathological alterations in the mouse cerebral 
microvasculature. By exploiting multi-parametric photoacoustic microscopy (PAM), 
microvascular structure, blood perfusion, oxygenation and flow were imaged in the
awake brain. With the aid of vessel segmentation, these structural and functional
parameters were extracted at the single-microvessel level, from which vascular
density, tortuosity, wall shear stress, resistance and associated cerebral oxygen
extraction fraction and metabolism were also quantified. With the use of
vasodilatory stimulus, multifaceted cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) was
characterized in vivo. By extending the classic Evans blue assay to in vivo,
permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) was dynamically evaluated. The
utility of this enabling technique was examined by studying cerebrovascular
alterations in an established mouse model of high-fat diet-induced obesity. Our
results revealed increased vascular density, reduced arterial flow, enhanced
oxygen extraction, impaired BBB integrity, and increased multifaceted CVR in the 
obese brain. Interestingly, the 'counterintuitive' increase of CVR was supported 
by the elevated active endothelial nitric oxide synthase in the obese mouse.
Providing comprehensive and quantitative insights into cerebral microvessels and 
their responses under pathological conditions, this technique opens a new door to
mechanistic studies of the cerebral small vessel disease and its implications in 
neurodegeneration and stroke.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Hypothalamic glucose sensing (HGS) initiates insulin secretion (IS)
via a vagal control, participating in energy homeostasis. This requires
mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mROS) signaling, dependent on
mitochondrial fission, as shown by invalidation of the hypothalamic DRP1 protein.
Here, our objectives were to determine whether a model with a HGS defect induced 
by a short, high fat-high sucrose (HFHS) diet in rats affected the fission
machinery and mROS signaling within the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH).
METHODS: Rats fed a HFHS diet for 3 weeks were compared with animals fed a normal
chow. Both in vitro (calcium imaging) and in vivo (vagal nerve activity
recordings) experiments to measure the electrical activity of isolated MBH
gluco-sensitive neurons in response to increased glucose level were performed. In
parallel, insulin secretion to a direct glucose stimulus in isolated islets vs.
insulin secretion resulting from brain glucose stimulation was evaluated.
Intra-carotid glucose load-induced hypothalamic DRP1 translocation to
mitochondria and mROS (H2O2) production were assessed in both groups. Finally,
compound C was intracerebroventricularly injected to block the proposed
AMPK-inhibited DRP1 translocation in the MBH to reverse the phenotype of HFHS fed
animals.
RESULTS: Rats fed a HFHS diet displayed a decreased HGS-induced IS. Responses of 
MBH neurons to glucose exhibited an alteration of their electrical activity,
whereas glucose-induced insulin secretion in isolated islets was not affected.
These MBH defects correlated with a decreased ROS signaling and glucose-induced
translocation of the fission protein DRP1, as the vagal activity was altered.
AMPK-induced inhibition of DRP1 translocation increased in this model, but its
reversal through the injection of the compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, failed to
restore HGS-induced IS.
CONCLUSIONS: A hypothalamic alteration of DRP1-induced fission and mROS signaling
in response to glucose was observed in HGS-induced IS of rats exposed to a 3 week
HFHS diet. Early hypothalamic modifications of the neuronal activity could
participate in a primary defect of the control of IS and ultimately, the
development of diabetes.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Sympathetic nervous system and immune cell interactions play key roles
in the regulation of metabolism. For example, recent convergent studies have
shown that macrophages regulate obesity through brown adipose tissue (BAT)
activation and beiging of white adipose tissue (WAT) via effects upon local
catecholamine availability. However, these studies have raised issues about the
underlying mechanisms involved including questions regarding the production of
catecholamines by macrophages, the role of macrophage polarization state and the 
underlying intracellular signaling pathways in macrophages that might mediate
these effects.
METHODS: To address such issues we generated mice lacking Irs2, which mediates
the effects of insulin and interleukin 4, specifically in LyzM expressing cells
(Irs2LyzM-/- mice).
RESULTS: These animals displayed obesity resistance and preservation of glucose
homeostasis on high fat diet feeding due to increased energy expenditure via
enhanced BAT activity and WAT beiging. Macrophages per se did not produce
catecholamines but Irs2LyzM-/- mice displayed increased sympathetic nerve density
and catecholamine availability in adipose tissue. Irs2-deficient macrophages
displayed an anti-inflammatory transcriptional profile and alterations in genes
involved in scavenging catecholamines and supporting increased sympathetic
innervation.
CONCLUSIONS: Our studies identify a critical macrophage signaling pathway
involved in the regulation of adipose tissue sympathetic nerve function that, in 
turn, mediates key neuroimmune effects upon systemic metabolism. The insights
gained may open therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of obesity.
EOF
Caffeine intake is associated with a reduced risk developing non-alcoholic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD), but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be fully
elucidated. We report here that caffeine markedly improved high fat diet-induced 
NAFLD in mice resulting in a 10-fold increase in circulating IL-6 levels, leading
to STAT3 activation in the liver. Interestingly, the expression of IL-6 mRNA was 
not increased in the liver, but increased substantially in the muscles of
caffeine-treated mice. Caffeine was found to stimulate IL-6 production in
cultured myotubes but not in hepatocytes, adipocytes, or macrophages. The
inhibition of p38/MAPK abrogated caffeine-induced IL-6 production in muscle
cells. Caffeine failed to improve NAFLD in IL-6 and hepatocyte-specific STAT3
knockout mice, indicating that the IL-6/STAT3 pathway is vital for the
hepatoprotective effects of caffeine in NAFLD. The possibility that
IL-6/STAT3-mediated hepatic autophagosome induction and hepatocytic oxygen
consumption are involved in the anti-NAFLD effects of caffeine cannot be
excluded, based on the findings presented here. Our results reveal that caffeine 
ameliorates NAFLD via crosstalk between muscle IL-6 production and liver STAT3
activation.
EOF
This study was conducted to understand the effect of high-fat diet challenge on
lipid transport and endoplasmic reticulum stress in blunt snout bream. Ninety
fish (average weight: 41.84 ± 0.07 g) were randomly fed a control diet (6% fat)
or a high-fat diet (11% fat) for 9 weeks. The growth performance and feed
utilization efficiency were evaluated at the end of the trial. The liver samples 
of both groups were harvested for molecular analysis and histological evaluation.
Compared to the Control group, the high-fat diet group showed no effects on
either growth performance or energy intake in blunt snout bream. However,
high-fat diet resulted in a massive accumulation of lipid and pathological
structural alternations, and disrupted expression of lipid transport-related
genes and endoplasmic reticulum stress in the liver of the fish. In vitro, after 
exposure of the isolated primary hepatocytes from blunt snout bream to oleic
acid, the cells showed increased intracellular TG accumulation, decreased VLDL
secretion, which was attributed to altered expression levels of lipid
transport-related genes through the activated IRE1/XBP1 signaling. The oleic
acid-induced detrimental effects were alleviated by co-incubating the cells with 
an IER1 inhibitor, 4μ8c. In conclusion, high-fat diet could lead to aberrant
lipid secretion by activating the ER stress-associated IRE1/XBP1 pathway.
Inhibiting the activity of IRE1 represents a promising target to rescue the
side-effects of high-fat diet on the liver function of blunt snout bream.
EOF
The aim of the study was to evaluate the influence of inulin supply to high-fat
diet rich in saturated fatty acids (SFA) on pork quality and profile of
sarcoplasmic protein in drip loss. At 50 days of age, twenty cross-bred pigs
(gilts) were randomly allotted to four groups: the control (C) group fed a
standard diet, and three experimental (D1, D2 and D3) groups fed a high-fat diet 
rich in SFA. Moreover, pigs from the groups D2 and D3 consumed an extra inulin
supply (7% of daily feed intake) from 85 to 120 days of age (for 5 weeks) and
from 50 to 120 days of age (for 10 weeks) respectively. The addition of inulin to
the diet reduced meaty odour and flavour significantly, improved tenderness and
overall sensory quality of pork and additionally influenced ultimate pH, L*
colour parameter, lactate level and protein content in meat. The diets also
affected the profile of sarcoplasmic proteins. Significant effects were observed 
for the following enzymes-PK/PGI (pyruvate kinase/phosphoglucose isomerase) and
ALD (aldolase), which are related to the intensity of post-mortem glycolysis.
Presented data indicate that long-term inulin supply to high-fat diet has a
positive effect on technological and sensory quality as well as protein profile
of pork.
EOF
Consumption of high fat diet (HFD) is a health concern in modern societies, which
participate in wide range of diseases. One underlying mechanism in the HFD
mediated pathologies is disruption of insulin signaling activity. It is believed 
that HFD activates several stress signaling molecules such as MAPKs signaling
pathway and these molecules participate in harmful effects in different cell
populations including hippocampal cells. However, the activity of MAPKs signaling
molecules are time dependent, even causing some opposing effects. Given that,
MAPKs activity fluctuate with time of stress, there is less cleared how different
lengths of HFD consumption can affect hippocampal MAPK. To test how duration of
HFD consumption affect hippocampal MAPKs and insulin signaling activity and
animal's cognitive function, rats were fed with HFD for different lengths (up to 
6 months) and after each point spatial memory performances of animals was tested,
then the peripheral indices of insulin resistance and hippocampal MAPKs and
insulin signaling activity was evaluated. Results showed that while different
time courses of HFD, up to 6 months, did not bring about significant spatial
memory impairment, meanwhile the peripheral insulin sensitivity as well as
hippocampal insulin and MAPKs signaling showed significant fluctuations during
the different time courses of high fat diet regime. These results showed that
neuronal responses to HFD is not constant and differ in a time-dependent manner, 
it seems that in acute phase molecular responses aimed to compensate the HFD
stress but in chronic states these responses failed and devastating effects of
stress began.
EOF
Mutations affecting the BSCL2 gene cause the most severe form of congenital
generalised lipodystrophy. Affected individuals almost completely lack adipose
tissue and suffer from severe diabetes and metabolic complications. Likewise,
mice lacking Bscl2 in all tissues have dramatically reduced adipose mass, glucose
intolerance and hyperinsulinaemia. However, male adipose tissue-specific Bscl2
knockout mice fail to develop the metabolic dysfunction observed in Bscl2 null
mice and BSCL2 deficient patients, despite a similar generalised lack of adipose 
tissues. Clinical reports indicate gender differences frequently exist in cases
of lipodystrophy, with female patients more adversely affected than male
patients. We therefore generated and characterised female mice lacking Bscl2
specifically in adipose tissue (Ad-B2(-/-)). We show that female Ad-B2(-/-) mice 
also develop early-onset lipodystrophy when fed a chow diet and are maintained
under standard housing conditions (21 °C) or thermoneutrality (30 °C). Despite
this, female Ad-B2(-/-) mice fail to develop severe metabolic dysfunction. Only
when female Ad-B2(-/-) mice are maintained at thermoneutrality and fed a high-fat
diet do subtle alterations to metabolic homeostasis manifest. This is despite a
striking inability to expand adipose mass. Our findings provide further evidence 
that loss of Bscl2 in non-adipose tissues may contribute to the severity of
metabolic dysfunction in this condition.
EOF
Chronic inflammation is a critical feature of obesity in the development of
myocardial dysfunction. The observations that interleukin-6 (IL-6) is implicated 
in lipid and glucose homeostasis as well as its connection with the pathogenesis 
of insulin resistance might suggest the involvement of this cytokine in metabolic
disorders of the failing heart. In the present study we aimed to assess the
effects of IL-6 ablation in mice fed with normal and high fat diet on the
myocardial expression of glucose and fatty acid transporting proteins, and to
evaluate the paralleled alterations in lipid content. We demonstrated that mice
devoid of IL-6 exert reduced glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT-4) expression
(-26%) and plasma membrane abundance (-43%), with no effect on glucose
transporter type 1 (GLUT-1) content. Although there were no significant
alterations in fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36) and plasma membrane-associated
fatty acid-binding protein (FABPpm) levels, we revealed a substantial decline in 
intramyocardial triacylglycerol level (-49%). Challenging of IL-6 knockout (KO)
mice with high fat diet evoked an increase in FAT/CD36 expression (+19%)
concomitantly with a trend for its reduced amount in plasma and mitochondrial
membranes. Additionally, an increase in triacylglycerol level (+56%) was noticed,
simultaneously with elevated content of saturated (+62%), monounsaturated (+69%) 
and polyunsaturated (+38%) fatty acids in this lipid fraction. The presented data
reflect different roles of IL-6 in cardiomyocytes under selected conditions
(i.e., normal and excessive lipid supply).
EOF
Antisense oligonucleotide knockdown (ASO-KD) of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase 
(NNMT) in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice has been reported to reduce weight gain,
plasma insulin and improve glucose tolerance. Using NNMT-ASO-KD or NNMT knockout 
mice (NNMT-/-), we tested the hypothesis that Nnmt deletion protects against
diet-induced obesity and its metabolic consequences in males and females on
obesity-inducing diets. We also examined samples from a human weight reduction
(WR) study for adipose NNMT (aNNMT) expression and plasma 1-methylnicotinamide
(MNAM) levels. In Western diet (WD)-fed female mice, NNMT-ASO-KD reduced body
weight, fat mass, insulin and improved glucose tolerance. While NNMT-/- mice on
standard diet had no obvious phenotype, NNMT-/- males on HFD showed strongly
improved insulin sensitivity (IS). Furthermore, NNMT-/- females on WD showed
reduced weight gain, less fat and lower insulin levels. However, no improved
glucose tolerance was observed in NNMT-/- While NNMT expression in human fat
biopsies increased during WR, corresponding plasma MNAM levels significantly
declined, suggesting that other mechanisms besides aNNMT expression modulate
circulating MNAM during WR.In summary, upon NNMT deletion or knockdown in males
and females on different obesity-inducing diets, we observed sex- and
diet-specific differences in body composition, weight and for glucose tolerance
and estimates of insulin sensitivity.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Observational studies that investigated the association between
adherence to low carbohydrate diet and odds of glioma are sparse. This is
particularly relevant in developing countries where dietary carbohydrate intake
is very high.
OBJECTIVE: This study was, therefore, conducted to investigate the association
between adherence to low carbohydrate dietary pattern and odds of glioma among
Iranian adults.
METHODS: In this hospital-based case-control study, 128 newly diagnosed glioma
cases were recruited and 256 age- and sex-matched subjects were enrolled as
controls. Dietary intakes were examined by the use of a 126-item validated FFQ.
Low carbohydrate diet (LCD) score was computed for each participant based on
deciles of percentages of energy from carbohydrates, proteins, and fats.
Individuals in the lowest decile of carbohydrate consumption received 10 points. 
Participants in second decile received 9 points and so on down to participants in
the highest decile received 1 points. For fat and protein intakes, the points
assigned to deciles were reversed; such that those in the highest decile received
10 points and those in the lowest decile received 1 point. We then summed all
points of the three macronutrients to achieve the overall diet score, which
ranged from 3 (highest carbohydrate intake and lowest fat and protein intakes) to
30 (lowest carbohydrate intake and highest fat and protein intakes). The higher
the score, the greater adherence to the LCD dietary pattern.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age and sex, we found that individuals in top
tertile of LCD score were 60% less likely to have glioma compared with those in
the bottom tertile (OR: 0.40; 95% CI: 0.23, 0.67). Additional controlling for
other potential confounders made the association slightly attenuated (OR: 0.49;
95%CI: 0.26, 0.93). Further adjustment for dietary nutrient intakes strengthened 
the association (OR: 0.32; 95%CI: 0.12, 0.81). After additional controlling for
BMI, we found that adherence to LCD was protectively associated with reduced odds
of glioma (OR: 0.32; 95%CI: 0.12, 0.81).
DISCUSSION: We found an inverse association between adherence to LCD and odds of 
glioma among Iranian population. Prospective cohort studies are needed to confirm
these findings.
EOF
Lipid metabolism disorder (LMD) is a public health issue. Spirulina platensis is 
a widely used natural weight-reducing agent and Spirulina platensis is a kind of 
protein source. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of
Spirulina platensis protease hydrolyzate (SPPH) on the lipid metabolism and gut
microbiota in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed rats. Our study showed that SPPH decreased 
the levels of triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), low-density-lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-c), alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate transaminase
(AST), but increased the level of high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) in
serum and liver. Moreover, SPPH had a hypolipidemic effect as indicated by the
down-regulation of sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor-1c
(SREBP-1c), acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC), SREBP-1c, and peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) and the up-regulation of adenosine
5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptorα (PPARα) at the mRNA level in liver. SPPH
treatment enriched the abundance of beneficial bacteria. In conclusion, our study
showed that SPPH might be produce glucose metabolic benefits in rats with
diet-induced LMD. The mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of SPPH on the
metabolism remain to be further investigated. Collectively, the above-mentioned
findings illustrate that Spirulina platensis peptides have the potential to
ameliorate lipid metabolic disorders, and our data provides evidence that SPPH
might be used as an adjuvant therapy and functional food in obese and diabetic
individuals.
EOF
Salvianic acid A (SAA) is an active water-soluble constituent derived from Salvia
miltiorrhiza Bge that is used extensively in the treatment of angiocardiopathy in
China. However, few reports have investigated the therapeutic effect and the
underlying mechanisms of SAA on atherosclerosis (AS). This study examines the
protective mechanisms of SAA on AS in vivo and in vitro. SAA treatment (3 and
10 mg/kg/d) prevented the progression of atherosclerotic lesions and decreased
58.2% and 72.8% of the lipid deposition in the aorta of high fat-diet-induced AS 
rat. Notably, SAA treatment ameliorated serum lipid abnormalities by decreasing
20.4% and 33.8% of triglyceride, 26.1% and 32.7% of total cholesterol, 36.0% and 
57.3% of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels and increasing 183.4% and
337.5% of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level in the serum of AS rat (all 
P <  0.05). SAA treatment lowered pro-inflammatory mediators including
interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, intercellular cell
adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) (all 
P <  0.05) by inhibiting the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B pathway.
In addition, SAA treatment significantly decreased oxidative stress by increasing
antioxidant enzymes activity, upregulating nuclear factor erythroid 2-related
factor 2/heme oxygenase-1 pathway and downregulated expression of p47phox and
p22phox (all P <  0.05) in vivo. Furthermore, SAA (10-5 and 3 × 10-5 M)
suppressed oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced expression of lectin-like
oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1, the phosphorylation of nuclear
factor kappa B (p65), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 (all P <  0.05) and inhibited NADPH
oxidase subunit 4-mediated reactive oxygen species generation in human umbilical 
vein endothelial cells. The experimental data verify the protective role of SAA
in AS and the underlying mechanisms are strongly associated with the inhibition
of oxidative stress, inflammation, and amelioration of endothelial dysfunction.
EOF
Saponins as small organic molecules and polysaccharides as biomacromolecules are 
the main bioactive substances of Momordica charantia L. (M. charantia) with
anti-hyperglycemic activities. This study was aimed to fully compare the
antidiabetic effects and the potential mechanism of saponins (SMC) and
polysaccharides (PMC) from M. charantia in STZ-induced type 2 diabetic mice with 
high-fat diet. Three dosages of SMC (L-SMC: 20 mg/kg, M-SMC: 40 mg/kg, H-SMC:
80 mg/kg) have a certain of therapeutic effect on type 2 diabetic mice, and M-SMC
(40 mg/kg) is the optimal dosage for the prevention and treatment of diabetes.
The results showed that oral administration of SMC, especially M-SMC (40 mg/kg)
compared to PMC (500 mg/kg), could significantly restore the body weight, reduce 
fasting blood glucose levels, ameliorate insulin resistance and increase the
proportion of hepatic phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein
kinase (p-AMPK)/total protein. The above results proved that hypoglycemic
mechanism of SMC might involve in the AMPK/NF-κB signal pathway by activating
AMPK phosphorylation and regulating the energy metabolism of the body. However,
oral administration of PMC could significant improve the antioxidant capacity by 
increasing the level of SOD and decreasing the level of MDA, and alleviate the
STZ-induced organ tissues (kidney and pancreas), which proved that the
hypoglycemic mechanism of PMC might by repairing the pancreatic β cells damaged
by STZ.
EOF
BACKGROUND: White adipose tissue (WAT) have a relevant metabolic and inflammatory
function, in overweight or obesity conditions. In this regard, the WAT under over
feeding nutrition present a significant increment in oxidative stress,
pro-inflammatory status and depletion of n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty
acid. Hydroxytyrosol (HT) is a polyphenol with important cytoprotective effects, 
and this molecule can modulate the gene expression, transcription factors and
enzymatic activity.
OBJECTIVE: Therefore, the purpose of this study was evaluate the
anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and anti-lipogenic effects of HT supplementation 
mice and the molecular adaptations involved, on dysfunctional WAT from high-fat
diet (HFD)-fed mice.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Male C57BL/6 J mice received (i) control diet (10% fat);
(ii) control diet + HT (daily doses of 5 mg kg body weight), (iii) HFD (60% fat);
or (iv) HFD + HT for 12 weeks. HFD-fed mice exhibited: (i) WAT hypertrophy; (ii) 
oxidative stress and depletion of antioxidant defenses, (iii) increased
lipogenesis and pro-inflammatory status, (iv) depletion of n-3 LCPUFA and (v)
up-regulation of NF-κB and SREBP 1c with down-regulation Nrf2, and PPAR-γ. HT
supplementation attenuated the metabolic impairment produced by HFD in WAT,
attenuating increment of NF-κB and SREBP 1c, and increasing the activity of Nrf2 
and PPAR-γ.
CONCLUSION: Supplementation with HT improve the WAT dysfunction induced by HDF in
mice through the modulation of transcription factors NF-κB, Nrf2, SREBP-1c and
PPAR-γ as well as their target genes, involved in inflammation, antioxidant
defenses and lipogenesis.
EOF
Macrophages' function play a vital role in the progression of atherosclerosis
(AS), and miRNAs can modulate inflammatory cytokine secretion, lipid uptake and
apoptosis of macrophages. miR-152 is down-regulated in the serum samples of AS
patients and inhibits the migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cell,
suggesting that miR-152 exerts a role in the atherogenesis. Nevertheless, the
function of miR-152 in the inflammatory reaction of macrophages remains
unexplored. Besides, bioinformatics shows that KLF5 is a direct target of
miR-152. As a result, the objective of this study is to investigate the effects
and mechanism of miR-152/KLF5 in the inflammatory reaction of macrophages. ApoE
knockdown mouse (ApoE-/-) fed with high fat diet (HFD) was used as animal AS
models. Ox-LDL treated RAW264.7 cell was used as cell model. Results showed that 
miR-152 expression was reduced, while KLF5 expression was elevated in the aortic 
tissues of AS mice, as compared with that of the control mice. Up-regulation of
miR-152 significantly reduced the elevated expression of IL-1, IL-6 and TNF-α
mediated by ox-LDL in the cultural supernatant of RAW264.7 cells and reduced
β-catenin expression, whereas these effects were all neutralized when KLF5 was
up-regulated in the base of miR-152 up-regulation. In conclusion, this study
illustrates that miR-152 alleviates the pathogenesis of AS through inhibiting
inflammatory responses by targeting KLF5, in which β-catenin might involves in.
Our study provides a possibility of consideration of miR-152/KLF5 as a target for
AS treatment.
EOF
Diabetes is a series of metabolic diseases, which characteristics is
hyperglycemia caused by the interruption of insulin action. Lycopene is an
antioxidant which has potential anti-diabetic activity but the correlative
reports are rare. This study was designed to explore the influence of lycopene on
metabolism of glycolipid in type 2 diabetes. The model of type2 diabetes was
induced in adult male albino Sprague Dawley rats, weighing 180-220 g, feeding
high fat diet for 4 weeks, then streptozotocin (25 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally
injected. 1 week after, rats in diabetic group showed increasing in fasting blood
glucose, lipid in blood and liver, glycosylated hemoglobin, HOMA-IR and
decreasing in plasma insulin comparing with the normal control group after
modeling. Oral administration of lycopene oil solution (10 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg body
weight) once a day for 10 weeks can improve the above changes and make them
toward to normality. The activities of oxidative enzymes SOD and GSH-Px increased
and MDA decreased in pancreatic tissue of rats after the intervention of
lycopene. In addition, it can also observe that lycopene can protect body weight 
loss from diabetic rats. These results showed that lycopene has potential effect 
on anti-diabetes and it can regulate the metabolism of glycolipid in diabetic
rats.
EOF
High-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity is a worldwide health problem and can cause
lipid accumulation in the liver. We evaluated the hepatoprotective effect of mate
tea treatment in mice submitted to an HFD. C57BL/6 mice were fed an HFD for 13
weeks with and without mate tea. A separate group of mice was treated with
fenofibrate as a positive control (a regular drug for lipid disorders).
Histological analyses, glucose tolerance tests (GTT), and quantification of
mediators related to lipid peroxidation, oxidative stress and blood biomarkers
for lipid profile were performed. The weight of animals and major organs related 
to hepatic steatosis was determined, and proinflammatory cytokines and the
participation of the Nrf2 pathway and adiponectin were evaluated. Mate tea
prevented the accumulation of lipid droplets in hepatocytes as well as weight
gain in animals submitted to the HFD. Mate tea treatment also prevented increases
in the liver weight, heart weight and amount of visceral and subcutaneous white
adipose tissue. Mate tea was able to prevent the deregulation of glucose uptake, 
as evaluated by GTT, and improved the indicators of oxidative stress, such as
nitrite levels, catalase activity, and oxidative damage, as evaluated by protein 
carbonylation and the MDA levels. Mate tea had an anti-inflammatory effect,
preventing the increase of IL-1β and KC and upregulating the expression of Nrf2. 
Mate tea prevented insulin increase and HDL cholesterol decrease but did not
affect total cholesterol or triglycerides levels. Treatment also prevented
adiponectin increase. Mate tea may be a good resource to reduce hepatic steatosis
in the future since it has anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant
effects, which prevent the accumulation of fat in the liver.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: We have investigated the possible effects and mechanism of
atorvastatin, a statin, and/or probucol, a powerful antioxidant used to lower
cholesterol before 1995, on the atherosclerosis development.
METHODS: Apolipoprotein-E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice fed with the high fat diet
were randomly divided into 3 groups (n = 10/each group): Placebo, Atorvastatin
(10 mg/ kg/d), and atorvastatin (10 mg/kg/d) plus probucol (10 mg/kg/d) groups.
C57BL/6 J mice were fed with normal diet as the control group (n = 10). Animals
were sacrificed 10 weeks after the intervention. To evaluate the experimental
atherosclerosis, blood tests were used for measuring serum lipoprotein profile,
Western blots for endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress protein expression, H&E
staining for plaque lesions, immunohistology for macrophages, inflammatory
cytokines, innate immune receptor TLR-4, transcription factor NF-κB, and
atherosclerosis plaques.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, ApoE-/- mice in the placebo group
showed with the significantly (p < 0.05) higher levels of serum total cholesterol
(TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and oxidized
low density lipoprotein (ox-LDL), PERK, GRP78, CHOP, IL-1β, TNF-α and NF-κB, but 
with the lower levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) and TLR-4,
and also the increase in macrophages and the aortic media collagen, and the
decrease in the elastic fibers (p < 0.01). Treatment with atorvastatin recovered 
all these features (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01) near to the levels in the control
group. In addition, the combination of atorvastatin and probucol has shown the
slightly stronger effect than the use of atorvastatin alone without statistical
significances when comparing most bio-markers of atherosclerosis, but with
significant differences in the reduction of the plaque lesion areas and
macrophages (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Atorvastatin and/or probucol suppresses ER stress and increase the
level of TLR-4, which lowers NF-κB, resulting in the recovery of atherosclerosis 
in the ApoE-/- mouse model.
EOF
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is an inflammatory and progressive form of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. However, there are no FDA-approved drugs for
this condition. Lipids accumulated in NASH have a direct role in the progression 
of this disease. Therefore, this study for the first time explored the preventive
effect of trans-chalcone on NASH through the modulation of sterol regulatory
element binding protein (SREBP)-1c, SREBP-2, hepatic fatty acid synthesis (FAS)
enzyme, proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-α, and PPAR-γ2 levels, which are
involved in hepatic lipid metabolism. In this study, male rats were randomly
divided into three groups (n = 7): Control, received 10% tween 80; NASH, received
10% tween 80 and 10 ml/kg high-fat emulsion (high-fat diet, HFD); and NASH + TC, 
received 20 mg/kg trans-chalcone and 10 ml/kg HFD. All treatments were performed 
by once-daily oral gavage for 6 weeks. Liver and blood samples were collected and
serum levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST),
alanine aminotransferase (ALT), triglyceride, total cholesterol, low-density
lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, as
well as hepatic levels of SREBP-1c, SREBP-2, FAS, PPAR-α, and PPAR-γ2, were
measured. Moreover, hematoxylin and eosin stained tissues were used for
histological analysis. In this study, treatment of HFD-fed rats with
trans-chalcone significantly reduced abnormalities in liver histology, serum
levels of liver injury markers, liver index, and hepatic levels of SREBP-1c,
SREBP-2, FAS, and PPAR-γ2. Furthermore, trans-chalcone significantly increased
hepatic PPARα levels in these rats. Therefore, it seems that trans-chalcone
protects the liver of HFD-fed rats against NASH development through reduction of 
SREBP-1c/ FAS- and PPAR-γ2-related lipogenesis, attenuation of SREBP-2-related
cholesterol synthesis, and elevation of PPARα-related fatty acid oxidation.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a chronic degenerative endocrine and metabolic
disease with high mortality and morbidity, yet lacks effective therapeutics. We
recently generated a novel fusion peptide INSR-IgG4Fc, Yiminsu (YMS), to
facilitate the high-affinity binding and transportation of insulin. Thus, the aim
of the present study was to determine whether the novel recombinant peptide, YMS,
could contribute to restoring insulin sensitivity and glycaemic control in
insulin resistance models and revealing its underlying mechanism. Palmitic acid
(PA)-treated LO2 cells and high fat diet (HFD)-fed mice were treated with YMS.
Therapeutic effects of YMS were measured using Western blotting, ELISA, qPCR,
Histology and transmission electron microscopy. We observed that YMS treatment
effectively improved insulin signaling in PA-treated LO2 cells and HFD-fed mice. 
Notably, YMS could significantly reduce serum levels of glucose, triglycerides,
fatty acids and cholesterol without affecting the serum insulin levels. Moreover,
our data demonstrated that YMS could restore glucose and lipid homeostasis via
facilitating insulin transportation and reactivating PI3K/Akt signaling in both
PA-treated cells and liver, gastrocnemius and brown fat of HFD-fed mice.
Additionally, we noticed that the therapeutic effects of YMS was similar as
rosiglitazone, a well-recognized insulin sensitizer. Our findings suggested that 
YMS is a potentially candidate for pharmacotherapy for metabolic disorders
associated with insulin resistance, particularly in T2DM.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Modifying the type of dietary fat consumed may impact appetite,
therefore having implications in weight management.
OBJECTIVE: To test the effects of a 5-day, high-fat diet rich in poly-unsaturated
fatty acids (PUFAs) and a diet rich in mono-unsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) on
markers of appetite.
METHODS: Fifteen normal weight men participated in a randomized cross-over design
with two controlled feeding trials (3d lead-in diet, pre-diet visit, 5d PUFA- or 
MUFA-rich diet, post-diet visit). The 5d diets (50% fat) were rich in either PUFA
(25% of energy) or MUFA (25% of energy). At pre- and post-diet visits, subjects
consumed breakfast and lunch test meals, rich in the FA corresponding to the
5-day diet. Fasting and postprandial subjective ratings of appetite were
determined and blood draws were performed for 4h after each meal to determine
changes in appetite hormones. An ad libitum buffet meal was given at the end of
pre- and post-diet visits.
RESULTS: Acutely, at the pre-diet visit, the PUFA-rich meal resulted in lower
ghrelin (hunger hormone) (iAUC: -350.85 ± 60.70 vs. -233.16 ± 61.42 pg/ml/8h, for
PUFA vs. MUFA, respectively; p < 0.05) and higher CCK (satiation hormone) (iAUC: 
238.09 ± 46.07 vs. 196.84 ± 33.92 pM/8h, for PUFA vs. MUFA, respectively;
p < 0.05). No other acute meal challenge differences were found. The 5d high PUFA
diet resulted in lower hunger ratings (iAUC: -172.06 ± 40.59 vs.
-274.46 ± 41.47 mm/8h, for pre-to post-diet, respectively; p < 0.05). However,
energy intake, ratings of fullness, or PYY did not change from pre-to post-diet
for either MUFA or PUFA, and no other changes were observed with the MUFA diet.
CONCLUSIONS: Acutely, a PUFA-rich meal results in ghrelin suppression and higher 
CCK. After a 5-day high-fat diet, PUFAs suppressed postprandial hunger while
MUFAs did not change any measures of appetite.
EOF
Blood flow regulation is a critical factor for tissue oxygenation and substrate
supply. Increased reactivity of arteries to vasoconstrictors may increase
vascular resistance, resulting in reduced blood flow. Here, we aimed to
investigate the effect of high fat (HF) diet on stiffness and vasoconstrictor
reactivity of white and brown adipose tissue (WAT and BAT) resistance arteries
and also investigated the interconversion of both the adipose depots during HF
diet condition. Vasoconstrictor reactivity,passive morphology and mechanical
properties of arteries from B6D2F1 mice(5 month) fed a normal chow (NC) or HF
diet (8 weeks) were measured using pressure myography. Receptor gene expression
in WAT and BAT arteries and markers of WAT and BAT were assessed in whole tissue 
lysates by real time RT-PCR. Despite greater receptor-independent
vasoconstriction (in response to KCl, P<0.01), vasoconstriction was lower in
response to angiotensin II (Ang II, P<0.01) and similar in response to endothelin
(ET-1, P=0.07) and norepinephrine (NE, P=0.11) in arteries from NC-BAT compared
with NC-WAT. Excluding BAT artery reactivity to ET-1 and Ang II, HF diet tended
to attenuate reactivity in arteries from both adipose depots and increased
expression of adipose markers in the BAT. No significant differences in
morphology or passive mechanical properties were found between adipose type or
diet conditions. Alterations in gene expression of adipose markers after HF diet 
suggest a beiging of the BAT. An increase in brown adipocytes in the absence of
increased BAT mass may be a compensatory mechanism to dissipate excess energy in 
the face of HF diet.
EOF
The deletion of the prorenin receptor (PRR) in adipose tissue elevates systolic
blood pressure (SBP) and circulating soluble form of PRR (sPRR) in male mice fed 
a high-fat diet (HF). However, sex differences in the contribution of adipose-PRR
and sPRR to the regulation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in key organs
for blood pressure control are undefined. Therefore, we assessed blood pressure
and the systemic and intrarenal RAS status in adipose-PRR KO female mice.
Blockade of RAS with losartan blunted SBP elevation in HF-fed adipose-PRR KO
mice. Angiotensin II (AngII) levels were significantly increased in renal cortex 
of HF-fed adipose-PRR KO female mice but not systemically. HF-fed adipose-PRR KO 
mice exhibited higher vasopressin levels, water retention and lower urine output 
than wild-type (WT) mice. Results also showed that the deletion of adipose-PRR
increased circulating sPRR and total hepatic sPRR contents suggesting the liver
as a major source of elevated plasma sPRR in adipose-PRR KO mice. To mimick the
elevation of circulating sPRR and define the direct contribution of systemic sPRR
to the regulation of RAS and vasopressin, C57BL/6 female mice fed a standard diet
were infused with recombinant sPRR. sPRR infusion increased plasma renin levels, 
renal and hepatic angiotensinogen expression and vasopressin. Together, these
results demonstrated that the deletion of adipose-PRR induced an elevation of SBP
likely mediated by an intrarenal AngII-dependent mechanism and that sPRR
participates in RAS regulation and body fluid homeostasis via its capacity to
activate RAS and to increase vasopressin levels.
EOF
Hypercholesterolaemia is considered a disease with intrauterine origin. Recently,
we reported that prenatal nicotine exposure (PNE) induced an abnormal level of
total cholesterol in rat offspring before and after birth. However, there were
little data about sex differences in serum cholesterol level in PNE offspring. In
addition, many previous studies reported that blood cholesterol is associated
with daily diet. This study was designed to analyse the interaction among PNE,
high-fat diet (HFD) and sex on cholesterol metabolism in the rat. Pregnant Wistar
rats were administered 2 mg/kg nicotine subcutaneously from gestational day (GD) 
11 until parturition. After weaning, pups were fed with normal diet or HFD till
24 weeks, and then, serum cholesterol phenotypes and hepatic cholesterol
metabolism-related genes were tested. Results showed that PNE manifested a
distinct programming effect on cholesterol phenotype and cholesterol
metabolism-related genes. HFD aggregated PNE-induced hypercholesterolaemia in
adult offspring and exacerbated liver cholesterol metabolism dysfunction in PNE
offspring. There was no sex difference in serum cholesterol level, but there were
interactions among PNE, HFD and sex on cholesterol metabolic genes in adult
offspring, which indicates that cholesterol metabolism in female offspring is
more likely to be affected by PNE and HFD. In conclusion, HFD exacerbated
PNE-induced hypercholesterolaemia, and sex differences existed in liver
cholesterol metabolic genes in PNE- or HFD-treated offspring.
EOF
Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is a devastating premature aging
disease. Mouse models have been instrumental for understanding HGPS mechanisms
and for testing therapies, which to date have had only marginal benefits in mice 
and patients. Barriers to developing effective therapies include the unknown
etiology of progeria mice early death, seemingly unrelated to the reported
atherosclerosis contributing to HGPS patient mortality, and mice not
recapitulating the severity of human disease. Here, we show that progeria mice
die from starvation and cachexia. Switching progeria mice approaching death from 
regular diet to high-fat diet (HFD) rescues early lethality and ameliorates
morbidity. Critically, feeding the mice only HFD delays aging and nearly doubles 
lifespan, which is the greatest lifespan extension recorded in progeria mice. The
extended lifespan allows for progeria mice to develop degenerative aging
pathologies of a severity that emulates the human disease. We propose that
starvation and cachexia greatly influence progeria phenotypes and that
nutritional/nutraceutical strategies might help modulate disease progression.
Importantly, progeria mice on HFD provide a more clinically relevant animal model
to study mechanisms of HGPS pathology and to test therapies.
EOF
Inflammation contributes to obesity-related hyperinsulinemia and insulin
resistance, which often precede type 2 diabetes. Inflammation is one way that
obesity can promote insulin resistance. It is not clear if the extent of obesity,
hyperinsulinemia, or hyperglycemia, underpins changes in cellular immunity during
diet-induced obesity. In particular, the requirement for obesity or
directionality in the relationship between insulin resistance and monocyte
characteristics is poorly defined. Inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis 
factor (TNF) can contribute to insulin resistance. It is unclear if TNF alters
monocytosis or specific markers of cellular immunity in the context of obesity.
We measured bone marrow and blood monocyte characteristics in WT and TNF-/- mice 
that were fed obesogenic, high fat (HF) diets. We also used hyperglycemic Akita
mice and mice implanted with insulin pellets in order to determine if glucose or 
insulin were sufficient to alter monocyte characteristics. We found that
diet-induced obesity in male mice increased the total number of monocytes in
blood, but not in bone marrow. Immature, inflammatory (Ly6Chigh ) monocytes
decreased within the bone marrow and increased within peripheral blood of HF-fed 
mice. We found that neither hyperinsulinemia nor hyperglycemia was sufficient to 
induce the observed changes in circulating monocytes in the absence of
diet-induced obesity. In obese HF-fed mice, antibiotic treatment lowered insulin 
and insulin resistance, but did not alter circulating monocyte characteristics.
Fewer Ly6Chigh monocytes were present within the blood of HF-fed TNF-/- mice in
comparison to HF-fed wild-type (WT) mice. The prevalence of immature Ly6Chigh
monocytes in the blood correlated with serum insulin and insulin resistance
irrespective of the magnitude of adipocyte or adipose tissue hypertrophy in obese
mice. These data suggest that diet-induced obesity instigates a TNF-dependent
increase in circulating inflammatory monocytes, which predicts increased blood
insulin and insulin resistance independently from markers of adiposity or adipose
tissue expansion.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: NISCH-STAB1 is a newly identified locus correlated to
human waist-hip ratio (WHR), which is a risk indicator of developing
obesity-associated diabetes. Our previous studies have shown that Nisch mutant
male mice increased glucose tolerance in chow-fed conditions. Thus we
hypothesized that Nisch mutant mice will have changes in insulin resistance,
adipocytes, hepatic steatosis when mice are fed with high-fat diet (HFD).
METHODS: Insulin resistance was assessed in Nisch mutant mice and WT mice fed
with high-fat diet (60% by kCal) or chow diet. Whole-body energy metabolism was
examined using an indirect calorimeter. Adipose depots including inguinal white
adipose tissue (WAT), perigonadal WAT, retroperitoneal WAT, and mesenteric WAT
were extracted. Area and eqdiameter of each adipocyte were determined, and
insulin signaling was examined as well. Paired samples of subcutaneous and
omental visceral adipose tissue were obtained from 400 individuals (267 women,
133 men), and examined the expression of Nischarin.
RESULTS: We found that insulin signaling was impaired in major insulin-sensitive 
tissues of Nisch mutant female mice. When mice were fed with HFD for 15 weeks,
the Nisch mutant female mice not only developed severe insulin resistance and
decreased glucose tolerance compared with wild-type control mice, but also
accumulated more white fat, had larger adipocytes and developed severe hepatic
steatosis than wild-type control mice. To link our animal studies to human
diseases, we further analyzed Nischarin expression in the paired human samples of
visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue from Caucasians. In humans, we found
that Nischarin expression is attenuated in adipose tissue with obesity. More
importantly, we found that Nischarin mRNA inversely correlated with parameters of
obesity, fat distribution, lipid and glucose metabolism.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our data revealed sexual dimorphism of Nischarin in 
body fat distribution, insulin resistance, and glucose tolerance in mice.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes is an age-and-obesity associated disease driven by impairments in
glucose homeostasis that ultimately result in defective insulin secretion from
pancreatic β-cells. To deconvolve the effects of age and obesity in an
experimental model of prediabetes, we fed young and aged mice either chow or a
short-term high-fat/high-sucrose Western diet (WD) and examined how weight,
glucose tolerance, and β-cell function were affected. Although WD induced a
similar degree of weight gain in young and aged mice, a high degree of
heterogeneity was found exclusively in aged mice. Weight gain in WD-fed aged mice
was well-correlated with glucose intolerance, fasting insulin, and in vivo
glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, relationships that were not observed in
young animals. Although β-cell mass expansion in the WD-fed aged mice was only
three-quarters of that observed in young mice, the islets from aged mice were
resistant to the sharp WD-induced decline in ex vivo insulin secretion observed
in young mice. Our findings demonstrate that age is associated with the
protection of islet function in diet-induced obese mice, and furthermore, that WD
challenge exposes variability in the resilience of the insulin secretory pathway 
in aged mice.
EOF
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that an experimental high
fat (HF) animal with metabolic syndrome results in structural degeneration of the
aortic valve. Domestic pigs were divided (n = 12) and administered either a
normal or HF diet. After 16-weeks, the HF diet group had increased weight
(p ≤ 0.05), total cholesterol (p ≤ 0.05), and systolic and diastolic pressure
(p ≤ 0.05). The aortic valve extracellular matrix showed loss of elastin fibers
and increased collagen deposition in the HF diet group. Collagen was quantified
with ELISA, which showed an increased concentration of collagen types 1 and 3
(p ≤ 0.05). In the HF diet group, the initial stages of microcalcification were
observed. Uniaxial mechanical testing of aortic cusps revealed that the HF diet
group expressed a decrease in ultimate tensile strength and elastic modulus
compared to the control diet group (p ≤ 0.05). Western blot and
immunohistochemistry indicated the presence of proteins: lipoprotein-associated
phospholipase A2, osteopontin, and osteocalcin with an increased expression in
the HF diet group. The current study demonstrates that experimental metabolic
syndrome induced by a 16-week HF diet was associated with a statistically
significant alteration to the physical architecture of the aortic valve.
EOF
The thyroid hormone-binding protein μ-crystallin (CRYM) mediates thyroid hormone 
action by sequestering triiodothyronine in the cytoplasm and regulating the
intracellular concentration of thyroid hormone. As thyroid hormone action is
closely associated with glycolipid metabolism, it has been proposed that CRYM may
contribute to this process by reserving or releasing triiodothyronine in the
cytoplasm. We aimed to clarify the relationship between CRYM and glycolipid
metabolism by comparing wild-type and CRYM knockout mice fed a high-fat diet.
Each group was provided a high-fat diet for 10 weeks, and then their body weight 
and fasting blood glucose levels were measured. Although no difference in body
weight was observed between the two groups with normal diet, the treatment with a
high-fat diet was found to induce obesity in the knockout mice. The knockout
group displayed increased dietary intake, white adipose tissue, fat cell
hypertrophy, and hyperglycemia in the intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test. In 
CRYM knockout mice, liver fat deposits were more pronounced than in the control
group. Enhanced levels of PPARγ, which is known to cause fatty liver, and ACC1,
which is a target gene for thyroid hormone and is involved in the fat synthesis, 
were also detected in the livers of CRYM knockout mice. These observations
suggest that CRYM deficiency leads to obesity and lipogenesis, possibly in part
through increasing the food intake of mice fed a high-fat diet.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Our previous study showed that metformin regulates the mRNA and
protein levels of type 2 small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel
(SK2) and type 3 small conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (SK3) in 
atrial tissue as well as the ion current of atrial myocytes in rats with type 2
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), but the underlying signaling mechanism is unknown. This
study aimed to investigate whether metformin regulates atrial SK2 and SK3 protein
expression in T2DM rats though the protein kinase C (PKC)/extracellular
signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway.
METHODS: A T2DM rat model was established using a high-fat and high-sugar diet
combined with a low-dose intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ). The
rats were randomly divided into the following five groups: the control group, the
untreated T2DM group, the metformin-treated only group, the phorbol 12-myristate 
13-acetate (PMA; a PKC agonist administered by intraperitoneal injection)
treatment group, and the recombinant human epidermal growth factor (rh-EGF; an
ERK agonist administered by tail vein injection) treatment group. The activity of
PKC in atrial tissues was assayed by a PKC kinase activity assay kit. The protein
expression of SK2, SK3, and phosphorylated ERK (pERK) were determined by western 
blotting and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Compared with the Control group, atrial PKC activity and pERK and SK3
protein expression were increased, while SK2 protein expression was decreased in 
atrial tissues of T2DM rats. Eight weeks of metformin treatment inhibited the PKC
activity and pERK and SK3 expression, and elevated SK2 expression compared with
the T2DM group. Compared with the metformin-treated only group, the injection of 
rh-EGF increased pERK and SK3 expression, and decreased SK2 expression; the
injection of PMA increased PKC activity and SK3 expression, and decreased SK2
expression. In addition, the injection with PMA significantly elevated the
expression of pERK.
CONCLUSIONS: The PKC/ERK signaling pathway is involved in the downregulation of
SK2 expression and the upregulation of SK3 expression in the atrium of T2DM rats.
Long-term metformin treatment prevents the SK2 downregulation and the SK3
upregulation through inhibiting the PKC/ERK signaling pathway.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To pilot test the effectiveness of "MyNutriCart", a smartphone
application (app) that generates healthy grocery lists, on diet and weight.
METHODS: A pilot randomized trial was conducted to test the efficacy of using the
"MyNutriCart" app compared to one face-to-face counseling session (Traditional
group) in Hispanic overweight and obese adults. Household food purchasing
behavior, three 24-h food recalls, Tucker's semi-quantitative food frequency
questionnaire (FFQ), and weight were assessed at baseline and after 8 weeks.
Statistical analyses included t tests, a Poisson regression model, and analysis
of covariance (ANCOVA) using STATA.
RESULTS: 24 participants in the Traditional group and 27 in the App group
completed the study. Most participants were women (>88%), with a mean age of 35.3
years, more than a high school education (>80%), a family composition of at least
three members, and a mean baseline body mass index (BMI) of 34.5 kg/m². There
were significant improvements in household purchasing of vegetables and whole
grains, in individual intakes of refined grains, healthy proteins, whole-fat
dairies, legumes, 100% fruit juices, and sweets and snacks; and in the individual
frequency of intake of fruits and cold cuts/cured meats within the intervention
group (p < 0.05). However, no significant differences were found between groups. 
No changes were detected in weight.
CONCLUSIONS: "MyNutriCart" app use led to significant improvements in
food-related behaviors compared to baseline, with no significant differences when
compared to the Traditional group. Cost and resource savings of using the app
compared to face-to-face counseling may make it a good option for
interventionists.
EOF
Myricetin is a biologically active natural polyphenol with beneficial effects on 
metabolic health. This study aimed to examine the effects of myricetin on the
expression levels of genes involved in lipolysis and mitochondrial respiration in
adipocytes and the anti-obesity potential of myricetin. The results indicated
that myricetin reduced triglyceride (TG) content and increased mitochondrial
content and oxygen consumption rate (OCR) in adipocytes in vitro. To determine
anti-obesity effect of myricetin, C57BL6/J mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD)
for eight weeks and then treated with myricetin (10 mg/kg) for 2 weeks. The in
vivo treatment of myricetin reduced body weight by 11%. Furthermore, it improved 
the glucose tolerance, and increased fatty acid consumption of HFD-fed mice.
Myricetin treatment increased Sirt3 expression and reduced the acetylation of
mitochondrial proteins in adipose tissue. Finally, the knockdown of Sirt3 in
adipocytes reduced the myricetin-induced increase in mitochondrial oxygen
consumption rate by about 27% compared to controls. Our results indicated that
myricetin exerted anti-obesity effects through the upregulation of Sirt3
expression and mitochondrial metabolism in adipose tissue.
EOF
Ceramide accumulation in muscle and in liver is implicated in the induction of
insulin resistance. Much less in known about the role of ceramide in adipose
tissue. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the role of ceramide in
adipose tissue and to clarify whether lipids participate in the regulation of
adipocytokine secretion. The experiments were performed on male Wistar rats
divided into three groups: 1. Control, 2. fed high fat diet (HFD), and 3. fed HFD
and treated with myriocin. Ceramide (Cer) and diacylglycerol (DAG) content were
analyzed by LC/MS/MS. Hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) phosphorylation was analyzed
by Western Blot. Plasma adiponectin and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)
concentration were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. An oral glucose
tolerance test (OGTT) and insulin tolerance test (ITT) was also performed. In HFD
group, total DAG and Cer content was elevated in both subcutaneous and visceral
adipose tissue, which was accompanied by increased glucose, insulin, and HOMA-IR 
value. Myriocin treatment restored HOMA-IR as well as glucose and insulin
concentration to control values. Moreover, myriocin decreased not only Cer, but
also DAG levels in both fat depots. Furthermore, we observed a strong correlation
between adiponectin (negative) and TNF-α (positive) and Cer in both fat tissues, 
which suggests that Cer is involved in the regulation of adipocytokine secretion.
EOF
Diabetes is a worldwide severe health issue which causes various complications.
This study aimed to evaluate the hypoglycemic effects of Rehmannia glutinosa
(RG), Coptis chinensis (CC) alone and their combination on high-fat-diet-induced 
diabetes in mice via biochemical assays and UPLC-Q/TOF-MS-based serum metabolomic
analysis. Diabetic KK-Ay mice were induced by high-fat diet and treated for eight
weeks, separately with RG, CC and their combination and the positive control drug
metformin. Administration of RG and CC alone, and their combination could
decrease the fasting blood glucose level, ameliorate the tolerance of glucose,
and recover the levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG),
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-C) in sera of diabetic mice. Orthogonal partial least squares
discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA) on serum metabolomes revealed that 79 ESI⁺ and 76
ESI- metabolites were changed by diabetes mellitus (DM) compared to the normal
control. Heatmaps on these diabetes-related metabolites showed that CC and RG/CC 
were clustered closer with the normal control, indicating that they had the
better antidiabetic effects at the metabolite level. Fifteen of the differential 
metabolites in DM serum were annotated and their related metabolic pathways were 
lipid metabolism. These data suggested that RG and CC alone and in combination
treatment had the antidiabetic activity in lowering glycemia and improving lipid 
metabolism. UPLC-Q/TOF-MS-based metabolomics shed light on the differential
metabolite effects of RG and CC in DM treatment. However, it should be noted that
some differential metabolites were possibly generated or not detected due to our 
groupwise run order, which possibly contributed to or covered the group
difference in our experiment. They need to be further discriminated in the future
work.
EOF
Effects of marine microalga Chlorella pyrenoidosa 55% ethanol extract (CPE55) on 
lipid metabolism, gut microbiota and regulation mechanism in high fat diet-fed
induced hyperlipidaemia rats were investigated. Structure characterizations of
major compounds in CPE55 were determined by ultra-performance liquid
chromatography-quadrupole/time of flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS).
The compositions of gut microbiota in rats were analyzed by high-throughput
next-generation 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Oral administration with CPE55 markedly
alleviated dyslipidemia through improving adverse blood lipid profile and
inhibiting hepatic lipid accumulation and steatosis. CPE55 has downregulated the 
gene expression levels of acetyl CoA carboxylase, sterol regulatory
element-binding transcription factor-1c, and 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme
A reductase and upregulated adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein
kinase-α. It has also improved the abundance of bacteria Alistipes, Prevotella,
Alloprevotella, and Ruminococcus1 and decreased the abundances of Turicibacter
and Lachnospira. Turicibacter and Lachnospira were both positive correlations of 
metabolic phenotypes. The findings above illustrated that CPE55 might be
developed as food ingredients to ameliorate lipid metabolic disorders and
hyperlipidaemia.
EOF
Oleuropein (Ole) is one of the most plentiful phenolic compounds with
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-atherogenic, hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic 
effects. The aim of our study was to establish whether the positive Ole-related
effects on liver steatosis could be associated with autophagy. Female and male
C57BL/6J mice were fed normal diet (ND) or high-fat diet (HFD) for eight weeks,
and Ole was added or not for the following eight weeks. The autophagy-related
proteins Akt, mTOR, AMPK, ULK1, Beclin-1, LC3B and p62/Sqstm1 were analyzed.
Interestingly, Ole induced a different regulation of the Akt/mTOR pathway in
female compared to male mice, but was able to activate the autophagic process in 
ND and HFD mice through AMPK-dependent phosphorylation of ULK1 at Ser555,
regardless of the gender. Our work reveals the ability of Ole to induce, in liver
of ND and HFD mice, autophagy independently by gender-specific mTOR activation.
We highlight Ole as a novel therapeutic approach to counteract unhealthy
diet-related liver steatosis by targeting autophagy.
EOF
This study had two main objectives: To examine the association between body fat
distribution and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and liver fat content,
and to determine whether the relationship between NAFLD and regional body fat
distribution, with respect to liver fat content in youths with excess adiposity, 
is independent of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and a healthy diet. Liver fat
content (controlled attenuation parameter (CAP)), body fat distribution (body
mass index (BMI) z-score, waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio, fat
mass/height, body fat percentage, total fat mass, android-to-gynoid fat mass
ratio, visceral adipose tissue (VAT), and lean mass index, determined by
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)), CRF (20-m shuttle-run test), and healthy
diet (adherence to the Mediterranean diet by KIDMED questionnaire) were measured 
in 126 adolescents (66% girls) aged between 11 and 17 years. Participants were
assigned to two groups according to the presence or absence of hepatic steatosis 
(CAP values ≥225 dB/m or <225 dB/m of liver fat, respectively). Considering the
similar total fat values for the two groups (>30% by DXA), youths with NAFLD had 
higher fat distribution parameters than those without NAFLD, regardless of sex,
age, puberty stage, lean mass index, CRF, and healthy diet (p < 0.01). In the
non-NAFLD group, the association between hepatic fat and fat distribution
parameters presented a similar pattern, although the association was
statistically insignificant after adjusting for a potential confounding variable 
(ps > 0.05), except for the case of VAT. Body fat distribution parameters were
higher in youths with NAFLD compared to those without NAFLD. Additionally, body
fat distribution showed a significant association with liver fat content as
assessed by CAP in youths with NAFLD independent of CRF and adherence to the
Mediterranean diet, supporting the notion that upper body fat distribution might 
play a pivotal role in the development of NAFLD in adolescents. These results may
have implications for the clinical management of youths with excess adiposity
given the high prevalence of NAFLD in children and young adults.
EOF
Males are known to have profound adipose tissue macrophage (ATM) accumulation in 
gonadal white adipose tissue (GWAT) during obesity, whereas females are protected
from such an inflammatory response even with increased adiposity. The
inflammatory tone in males is linked to insulin resistance and might be the
underlying cause for sex differences in metabolic disease. Factors regulating the
meta-inflammatory response remain unclear but enhanced lipid storage in females
may explain the reduced inflammatory response to high-fat diets. In this study,
we evaluated lean and obese females with stimulated lipolysis to understand
whether a stress release of free fatty acids (FFAs) could induce female ATMs. We 
demonstrate that in both lean and obese females, GWAT CD11c- resident ATMs
accumulate with β-3 adrenergic receptor-stimulated lipolysis. Lipolysis elevated 
serum FFA, triglyceride, and IL-6 levels in females that corresponded to
significant phosphorylated hormone-sensitive lipase and adipose triglyceride
lipase protein expression in obese female GWAT compared with males. Increased
lipolytic response in obese females was associated with crown-like structures and
induced Il6, Mcp1, Arg1, and Mgl1 expression in obese female GWAT, suggesting an 
environment of lipid clearance and adipose remodeling. With this finding we next 
investigated whether lipid storage and lipolytic mediators differed by sex.
Diacylglycerol, ceramides, phospholipids, and certain fatty acid species
associated with inflammation were elevated in male GWAT compared with obese
female GWAT. Overall, our data demonstrate a role for GWAT lipid storage and
lipolytic metabolites to induce inflammation in males and induce remodeling in
females that might explain sex differences in overall metabolic health.
EOF
Lotus seed is well known as traditional food and medicine, but its skin is
usually discarded. Recent studies have shown that lotus seed skin contains a high
concentration of proanthocyanidins that have multi-functions, such as
antioxidation, anti-inflammation, and anti-cancer effects. In the present study, 
we aimed to isolate and purify the proanthocyanidins from lotus seed skin by
acetone extraction and rotary evaporation, identify their chemical structures by 
HPLC-MS-MS and NMR, and further investigate the antioxidant properties of the
extract purified by macroporous resin (PMR) from lotus seed skin both in vitro
and in vivo. The results showed that PMR mainly contained oligomeric
proanthocyanidins, especially dimeric procyanidin B1 (PB1), procyanidin B2 and
procyanidin B4. Although it had limited ability to directly scavenge radicals in 
vitro, PMR could significantly enhance the expressions of antioxidant proteins
via activation of nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-antioxidant response 
element (ARE) pathway in HepG2 cells. Molecular data revealed that PB1, a major
component in PMR, stabilized Nrf2 by inhibiting the ubiquitination of Nrf2, which
led to subsequent activation of the Nrf2-ARE pathway, including the enhancements 
of Nrf2 nuclear translocation, Nrf2-ARE binding and ARE transcriptional activity.
Moreover, the in vivo results in high fat diet-induced mice further verified the 
powerful antioxidant property of PMR. These results revealed that lotus seed skin
is a promising resource for functional food development.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Vitamin D deficiency is associated with a greater risk for
osteoporosis and also influences skeletal muscle functions. The aim of this study
was to investigate the influence of vitamin D restriction on ovariectomized (OVX)
rats fed a high-fat diet.
METHODS: Twenty-four 13-wk-old female rats were ovariectomized, and another 6
received a sham operation (Sham). The OVX rats were divided into four groups and 
fed experimental diets: a basic control diet (OVX-Cont), a basic control diet
with vitamin D restriction (OVX-DR), a high-fat diet (OVX-F), and a high-fat diet
with vitamin D restriction (OVX-FDR).
RESULTS: At 28 d after starting the experimental diets, the fat mass was
significantly increased in the OVX-F and OVX-FDR groups compared with OVX-Cont
group, whereas the muscle mass was significantly decreased in the OVX-F and
OVX-FDR groups compared with the OVX-Cont group. Compared with the OVX-Cont
group, the bone mineral content of the femur was significantly lower in the
OVX-DR and OVX-FDR groups, and the bone mineral density of the femur was
significantly lower in the OVX-DR group. Myogenin is one of the muscle-specific
transcription factors. The levels of mRNA expression of myogenin in the soleus
and gastrocnemius muscles from the OVX-DR and OVX-FDR groups were reduced
markedly compared with those from the OVX-Cont group.
CONCLUSION: We provided evidence that a high-fat diet with vitamin D restriction 
influences bone and muscle metabolism using OVX rats. Further studies on vitamin 
D deficiency in the regulation of muscle as well as bone metabolism would provide
valuable data for the prevention of osteoporosis and sarcopenia.
EOF
Maternal environmental factors such as diet have profound effects on offspring
development and later health. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is an
important stress neuroendocrine system that is subject to programming by early
life challenges. The present study was further to investigate whether maternal
high fat diet (HFD) exposure during rat pregnancy and lactation can alter the HPA
axis activity in adult male offspring. We observed that maternal HFD consumption 
exerted long-term effects on the basal activity of the HPA axis in adult
offspring, with increased mean plasma corticosterone levels that result from
elevated steroid pulse frequence and pulse amplitude. More importantly, maternal 
HFD offspring displayed enhanced corticosterone responses to restraint (1 h) and 
lipopolysaccharide (25 μg/kg, iv) but not insulin-induced hypoglycemia (0.3U/kg, 
iv) stress, suggesting a stressor-specific effect of maternal diet on the
hyperresponsiveness of the HPA axis to stress. Additionally, maternal HFD
exposure markedly attenuated the habituation of HPA responses to repeated
restraint stress. These findings demonstrate that perinatal HFD exposure has a
potent and long-lasting influence on development of neuroendocrine regulatory
mechanisms. Maternal HFD consumption significantly increased basal
corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA expression in the paraventricular
nucleus; nevertheless, similar increments in CRF mRNA levels following restraint 
were observed between maternal HFD offspring and control rats. Furthermore, the
medial and central nuclei of amygdala played a pivotal role in maternal
HFD-induced sensitization of the HPA response to psychological and systemic
stress, respectively, suggesting that different neural pathways may mediate
maternal HFD-induced HPA hyperresponsivity to different types of stressors. Take 
together, the long-term effects of maternal HFD challenge on the central
regulation of the HPA axis, therefore, expose the adult offspring to greater HPA 
function throughout lifespan, in stressor-specific and region-specific manner.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has become a tremendous problem in public health 
nowadays. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) refers to a group of heterogeneous
particles that circulate in blood, and a recent research finds that HDL acts a
pivotal part of glucose metabolism. To understand systemic metabolic changes
correlated with HDL in glucose metabolism, we applied LC-MS-based metabolomics
and lipidomics to detect metabolomic and lipidomic profiles of plasma from apoA-I
knockout mice fed a high-fat diet. Multivariate analysis was applied to
differentiate apoA-I knockout mice and controls, and potential biomarkers were
found. Pathway analysis demonstrated that several metabolic pathways such as
aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, arginine and proline metabolism, and phenylalanine, 
tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis were dysregulated in apoA-I knockout mice. 
This study may provide a new insight into the underlying pathogenesis in T2DM and
prove that LC-MS-based metabolomics and lipidomics are powerful approaches in
finding potential biomarkers and disturbed pathways.
EOF
The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential mechanism
underlying the anti-obesity-asthmatic effects of resveratrol (RSV) in a rat model
of obese-asthma. Rat models of obesity and asthma were established using a
high-fat diet and the administration of ovalbumin, respectively. Rats were
divided into 7 different groups: A normal control, a normal obese, a normal
asthma, a normal obese + asthma, a RSV obese, a RSV asthma and a RSV obese +
asthma group. Body weight, Lee index, body fat and lung histopathological changes
were evaluated. Serum lipid levels were evaluated using calorimetric methods.
Levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were examined using enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assays. Cellular antioxidant enzyme activities were measured using 
commercial kits. Levels of kelch-like ECH associated protein 1 (Keap-1) and
nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) was examined using western
blot analysis. The results indicated that obese and asthma rat models were
successfully established. It was also demonstrated that RSV decreased fasting
blood glucose in obese, asthmatic and obese-asthmatic rats. RSV altered serum
lipid levels; it significantly increased high density lipoprotein cholesterol
levels and significantly decreased serum triglyceride, serum total cholesterol
and very low density lipoprotein levels, compared with untreated obese, asthmatic
and obese-asthmatic rats (P<0.05). ROS levels were significantly decreased in the
RSV treatment group compared with obese, asthmatic and obese-asthmatic rats
(P<0.05). RSV treatment significantly increased catalase, glutathione,
glutathione peroxidase and total superoxide dismutase levels compared with
untreated obese, asthmatic and obese-asthmatic rats (P<0.05). Furthermore, RSV
treatment significantly downregulated Keap-1 and upregulated Nrf2 levels in the
heart, lung and kidney tissues of rats compared with untreated controls.
Therefore, the results demonstrate that RSV protects against oxidative stress by 
activating the Keap-1/Nrf2 antioxidant defense system in obese-asthmatic rat
models.
EOF
Ghrelin is a stomach-derived peptide hormone with an appetite-stimulating effect.
Octanoylation on the serine-3 residue of ghrelin by ghrelin O-acyl transferase
(GOAT) is essential for its orexigenic effect. Mature octanoylated ghrelin is
generated by the C-terminal cleavage of octanoylated proghrelin via prohormone
convertases (furin, PC1/3, or PC2). We previously established an AGS-GHRL8 cell
line that produces octanoylated ghrelin in the presence of octanoic acid, and
found that oleanolic acid suppresses octanoylated ghrelin production in AGS-GHRL8
cells. Here, we investigated the effects of oleanolic acid in C57BL/6J mice fed a
standard, high-fat, or high-glucose diet. Oral administration of oleanolic acid
for seven days (20 or 40 mg/kg) reduced plasma octanoylated ghrelin levels and
body weight gain in the standard diet-fed mice but not in other two diet-fed
mice. There were no significant differences in ghrelin, GOAT, furin, PC1/3, and
PC2 gene expression levels between the vehicle- and oleanolic acid-treated mice
fed a standard diet. Octanoyl-CoA is a substrate for ghrelin octanoylation by
GOAT. We found that oleanolic acid did not affect octanoyl-CoA production in
vitro. Hence, the inhibitory effect of oleanolic acid on octanoylated ghrelin
production may not be related to the decrease in octanoyl-CoA. The results of
this study may provide valuable knowledge for the development of anti-obesity
agents with an inhibitory effect on octanoylated ghrelin production.
EOF
Lifestyle factors conferring increased diabetes risk are associated with elevated
basal insulin levels (hyperinsulinaemia). The latter predicts later obesity in
children and adolescents.A causal role of hyperinsulinaemia for adipose tissue
growth is probable because pharmacological reduction of insulin secretion lowers 
body weight in people who are obese. Genetic inactivation of insulin gene alleles
in mice also lowers their systemic insulin levels and prevents or ameliorates
high-fat diet-induced obesity. Hyperinsulinaemia causes weight gain because of a 
physiological property of insulin. Insulin levels that are on the high side of
normal, or which are slightly elevated, are sufficient to suppress lipolysis and 
promote lipogenesis in adipocytes. The effect of insulin on glucose transport or 
hepatic glucose production requires six or two times higher hormone levels,
respectively.It seems justified to suggest a lifestyle that avoids high insulin
levels in order to limit anabolic fat tissue activity.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Modifiable lifestyle factors (e.g. dietary intake and physical
activity) are important contributors to weight gain during college. The purpose
of this study was to evaluate whether associations exist between body mass index,
physical activity, screen time, dietary consumption (fat, protein, carbohydrates,
and fiber), and gut microbial diversity during the first year of college.
Racially/ethnically diverse college students (n = 82; 61.0% non-white) at a large
Southwestern university completed self-reported physical activity and 24-h recall
dietary assessments, height and weight measurements, and provided one fecal
sample for gut microbiome analysis. Fecal microbial community composition was
assessed with Illumina MiSeq next-generation sequencing of PCR amplified 16S rRNA
genes. Post-hoc analyses compared microbial diversity by groups of high and low
physical activity and fiber intake using QIIME and LEfSe bioinformatics software.
RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were observed between body mass
index and gut microbiome abundance and diversity. Median daily consumption of
dietary fiber was 11.2 (7.6, 14.9) g/d, while the median self-reported
moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) was 55.7 (27.9, 79.3) min/d and
screen time 195.0 (195.0, 315.0) min/d. Microbial analysis by LEfSe identified
Paraprevotellaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and Lachnospira as important phylotypes in
college students reporting greater MVPA, while Enterobacteriaceae and
Enterobacteriales were more enriched among students reporting less MVPA
(p < 0.05). Barnesiellaceae, Alphaproteobacteria, and Ruminococcus were more
abundant taxa among those consuming less than the median fiber intake (p < 0.05).
Post-hoc analyses comparing weighted UniFrac distance metrics based on combined
categories of high and low MVPA and fiber revealed that clustering distances
between members of the high MVPA-low fiber group were significantly smaller when 
compared to distances between members of all other MVPA-fiber groups
(p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Habitual fiber consumption and MVPA behaviors help explain the
differential abundance of specific microbial taxa and overall gut microbial
diversity differences in first-year college students.
EOF
Black Soybean Leaf Extract Suppresses Hyperglycemia and Hepatic Steatosis by
Enhancing Adiponectin Receptor Signaling and AMPK Activation.
Li H, Kim UH, Yoon JH, Ji HS, Park HM, Park HY, Jeong TS.
Yellow soybean leaf extract including kaempferol glycosides and pheophorbides
reduces obesity and plasma glucose levels. This study researched the molecular
mechanisms underlying the glucose-lowering effect of the extract of black soybean
leaves (EBL), which mainly contains quercetin glycosides and isorhamnetin
glycosides, in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese diabetic mice and HepG2 cells.
Twelve weeks of EBL supplementation decreased body weight, fasting glucose,
glycated hemoglobin, insulin, triglyceride, and non-esterified fatty acids.
Histological analyses manifested that EBL suppressed hepatic steatosis.
Interestingly, EBL significantly improved plasma adiponectin levels and increased
adiponectin receptor gene (AdipoR1 and AdipoR2) expression in the liver. EBL
restored the effects of HFD on hepatic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and on
family of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARα, PPARδ, and PPARγ), 
which are associated with fatty acid metabolism and are downstream of AdipoRs.
Hence, EBL effectively diminished hyperglycemia and hepatic steatosis through
enhancing adiponectin-induced signaling and AMPK activation in the liver.
EOF
SCOPE: Sirtuin 3 (SIRT3) plays a protective role against nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD) by improving hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction. Gut microbiota
imbalance contributes to the pathogenesis of NAFLD, yet the underlying mechanism 
linking SIRT3 with gut microbiota in NAFLD progression remains obscure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Wild-type 129 mice and SIRT3 knockout (SIRT3KO) mice are
placed under a chow diet or high-fat diet (HFD) treatment for 18 weeks. HFD
resulted in a significantly increased hepatic steatosis and inflammation, which
are exacerbated in SIRT3KO mice. The gut microbiota by 16s rRNA gene sequencing
and phylogenetic reconstruction of unobserved states analysis are characterized. 
Lack of SIRT3 facilitates gut microbial dysbiosis in mice following HFD, with
increased Desulfovibrio, Oscillibacter, and decreased Alloprevotella. SIRT3
deficiency resulted in an impaired intestinal permeability and inflammation in
HFD-fed mice, which can be attenuated by sodium butyrate (NaB). SIRT3KO HFD-fed
mice is followed by an increased lipopolysaccharide into the circulation and
dysregulated expressions of cannabinoid receptor 1 and 2 in colon and liver,
which are significantly associated with the alterations of intestinal microbiota.
CONCLUSIONS: SIRT3 deficiency promotes NAFLD progression in correlation with
impaired intestinal permeability through gut microbiota dysbiosis.
EOF
The "hunger" hormone, ghrelin, is powerfully orexigenic. Even in the absence of
hunger, ghrelin delivery to rats increases consumption of chow, as well as
palatable foods, and increases motivated behaviour for palatable food rewards.
Inspired by the finding that ghrelin increases the selection of chow in rats
offered a choice diet (lard, sucrose or chow) and even in rats bingeing on a
high-fat diet, we aimed to explore whether the effects of ghrelin on motivation
extend to regular chow. Rats were conditioned to lever press for either chow or
sucrose pellets in a progressive ratio (PR) operant conditioning task. The effect
of acute i.c.v. delivery of ghrelin on both chow and sucrose self-administration 
was determined and compared with overnight fasting (ie, when endogenous ghrelin
levels are elevated). We found that ghrelin similarly increased motivated
behaviour for chow and sucrose pellets. The effect of fasting on motivated
behaviour for both food pellets was comparable in magnitude to that induced by
ghrelin, albeit with an earlier ceiling effect during the PR session. Devaluation
experiments (in which rats are offered either food reinforcer in excess prior to 
PR testing) did not support the hypothesis that sucrose pellets would be more
difficult to devalue (as a result of their higher incentive value) than chow
pellets. When exchanging the respective pellets during a PR session,
chow-conditioned rats were more motivated for sucrose pellets compared to chow
pellets; however, sucrose-conditioned rats were similarly motivated for chow
pellets compared to sucrose pellets. Thus, using sucrose as a reward may increase
the motivation even for less palatable foods. We conclude that the impact of
ghrelin on food-motivated behaviour in fed rats is not limited to palatable foods
but extends to regular chow, and also that the magnitude of the effect is
considerable compared to that of an overnight fast.
EOF
Objectives: The present study was aimed to evaluate the effect of methanolic
fruit extract of Momordica cymbalaria (MeMC) against high-fat diet-induced
obesity and diabetes in C57BL/6 mice.
Materials and Methods: In the present study, six weeks old male C57BL/6 mice were
divided into four groups. G-1 and G-2 served as lean control and HFD control, G-3
and G-4 received MeMC 25 and 50 mg/kg, BW doses; all the treatments were given
for a period of 11 weeks. The parameters such as body weight, fasting blood
glucose, insulin, cholesterol, free fatty acid, and oral glucose tolerance tests 
were performed, further, at the end of the study fasting body weight, and weights
of organs such as the liver, heart, and adipose tissue were measured and the
liver tissue was subjected to histopathology evaluation, and insulin resistance
was expressed as HOMA-IR index.
Results: The high-fat diet fed C57 mice showed significant elevation of body
weight (P<0.01), blood glucose (P<0.01), insulin (P<0.01), cholesterol (P<0.01), 
free fatty acid (P<0.01), and HOMA-IR index (P<0.01) along with significant
elevation of all organ weights and reduction in oral glucose tolerance (P<0.01)
and brown adipose weight (P<0.01). The histopathology showed significant fatty
infiltration and hypertrophy of hepatocytes. Interestingly, MeMC (50 mg/kg)
alleviated all the HFD-induced perturbances significantly. Further, the HPLC
analysis of MeMC revealed the presence of gallic acid and rutin as chief
ingredients.
Conclusion: MeMC possesses potent antidiabetic activity and ameliorates insulin
resistance in HFD diet fed C57 mice.
EOF
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are a group of early-onset neurodevelopmental
conditions characterized by alterations in brain connectivity with cascading
effects on neuropsychological functions. To date, in the framework of an
increasing interest about environmental conditions which could interact with
genetic factors in ASD pathogenesis, many authors have stressed that changes in
the intrauterine environment at different stages of pregnancy, such as those
linked to maternal metabolic pathologies, may lead to long-term conditions in the
newborn. In particular, a growing number of epidemiological studies have
highlighted the role of obesity and maternal diabetes as a risk factor for
developing both somatic and psychiatric disorders in humans, including ASD. While
literature still fails in identifying specific etiopathological mechanisms, a
growing body of evidence is available about the presence of a relationship
between maternal immune dysregulation, inflammation, oxidative stress, and the
development of ASD in the offspring. In this framework, results from high-fat
diet animal models about the role played by oxidative stress in shaping offspring
neurodevelopment may help in clarifying the pathways through which maternal
metabolic conditions are linked with ASD. The aim of this review is to provide an
overview of literature about the effects of early life insults linked to
oxidative stress which may be involved in ASD etiopathogenesis and how this
relationship can be explained in biological terms.
EOF
The aim of this work is to investigate the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on
insulin sensitivity in high-fat diet (HFD) induced insulin resistance (IR) rats
and to evaluate expression of AMPK/ACC signaling components. Thirty-two male
Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into control group, HFD group, HFD+Pi (oral
gavage of pioglitazone) group, and HFD+EA group. Acupuncture was subcutaneously
applied to Zusanli (ST40) and Sanyinjiao (SP6). For Zusanli (ST40) and Sanyinjiao
(SP6), needles were connected to an electroacupuncture (EA) apparatus. Fasting
plasma glucose was measured by glucose oxidase method. Plasma fasting insulin
(FINS) and adiponectin (ADP) were determined by ELISA. Triglyceride (TG) and
cholesterol (TC) were determined by Gpo-pap. Proteins of adiponectin receptor 1
(adipoR1), AMP-activated Protein Kinase (AMPK), and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) 
were determined by Western blot, respectively. Compared with the control group,
HFD group exhibits increased levels of FPG, FINS, and homeostatic model
assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and decreased level of ADP and insulin
sensitivity index (ISI). These changes were reversed by both EA and pioglitazone.
Proteins of adipoR1 and AMPK were decreased, while ACC were increased in HFD
group compared to control group. Proteins of these molecules were restored back
to normal levels upon EA and pioglitazone. EA can improve the insulin sensitivity
of insulin resistance rats; the positive regulation of the AMPK/ACC pathway in
the skeletal muscle may be a possible mechanism of EA in the treatment of IR.
EOF
Adipocyte size (AS) shows asymmetric distribution related to current metabolic
state, e.g., adipogenesis or lipolysis. We profiled AS distribution using
different statistical approaches in offspring (F1) of control (C) and obese (MO) 
mothers (F0) with and without F0 or F1 exercise. Offspring from F0 exercise were 
designated CF0ex and MOF0ex. Exercised F1 of sedentary mothers were designated
CF1ex and MOF1ex. F1 retroperitoneal fat cross-sectional AS was measured by
median, cumulative distributions, data dispersion and extreme values based on
gamma distribution modeling. F1 metabolic parameters: body weight,
retroperitoneal fat, adiposity index (AI), serum leptin, triglycerides (TG) and
insulin resistance index (IRI) were measured. Male and female F1 AS showed
different cumulative distribution between C and MO (p < 0.0001) therefore
comparisons were performed among C, CF0ex and CF1ex groups and MO, MOF0ex and
MOF1ex groups. MO AI was higher than C (p < 0.05) and male MOF1ex AI lower than
MO (p < 0.05). Median AS was higher in male and female MO vs. C (p < 0.05). Male 
and female MOF0ex and MOF1ex reduced median AS (p < 0.05). Lower AS dispersion
was observed in male CF1ex and MOF1ex vs. CF0ex and MOF0ex, respectively. MO
reduced small and increased large adipocyte proportions vs. C (p < 0.05); MOF0ex 
increased small and MOF1ex the proportion of large adipocytes vs. MO (p < 0.05). 
MOF0ex reduced male IRI and female TG vs. MO (p < 0.05). MOF1ex reduced male and 
female leptin (p < 0.05); CF1ex reduced male leptin (p < 0.05). Conclusions:
several factors, diet, physical activity and gender modify AS distribution.
Conventional AS distribution methods normally do not include analyzes of extreme,
large and small adipocytes, which characterize different phenotypes. Maternal
high fat diet affects F1 AS distribution, which was programmed during
development. F0ex and F1ex have gender specific F1 beneficial effects. AS
distribution characterization helps explain adipose tissue metabolic changes in
different physiological conditions and will aid design of efficacious
interventions to prevent and/or recuperate adverse developmental programming
outcomes. Finally, precise identification of effects of specific interventions as
exercise of F0 and/or F1 are needed to improve outcomes in obese women and their 
obesity prone offspring.
EOF
(-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), which is the most abundant catechin in
green tea, has many potential health benefits, including decreased weight gain
and/or adipose tissue weight. Suggested mechanisms for body weight reduction by
EGCG include: (1) a decrease in calorie intake and (2) activation of AMPK in
liver, skeletal muscle, and white adipose tissue. However, only one study
supports the AMPK hypothesis. To determine the role of AMPK in EGCG-induced
reduction of body weight, we administrated 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg per day to
mice, together with a high-fat diet (HFD), for 20 weeks. EGCG had a significant
effect on obesity and decrease in epididymal adipose tissue weight, and also
affected serum lipid characteristics, including triglyceride, cholesterol (CHOL),
and high- and low-density lipoprotein CHOL (HDL-C, LDL-C) concentrations. In
addition, EGCG increased the excretion of free fatty acids from feces. By
measuring the mRNA expression levels of genes involved in lipid metabolism, we
found that EGCG inhibited the expression of genes involved in the synthesis of de
novo fatty acids (acc1, fas, scd1, c/ebpβ, pparγ, and srebp1) and increased the
expression of genes associated with lipolysis (hsl) and lipid oxidization in
white adipose tissue, in both the HFD and the EGCG groups. However, EGCG
significantly increased the expression of genes involved in the synthesis of de
novo fatty acids compared with the HFD group. Increased AMPK activity was found
in both subcutaneous and epididymal adipose tissues. In conclusion, EGCG can
decrease obesity and epididymal white adipose tissue weight in mice, only
partially via activation of AMPK.
EOF
Emerging data demonstrate that microglia activation plays a pivotal role in the
development of hypothalamic inflammation in obesity. Early after the introduction
of a high-fat diet, hypothalamic microglia undergo morphological, and functional 
changes in response to excessive dietary saturated fats. Initially the resident
microglia are affected; however, as diet-induced obesity persists, bone
marrow-derived myeloid cells gradually replace resident microglia. Genetic and
pharmacological approaches aimed at dampening the inflammatory activity in the
hypothalamus of experimental models of obesity have proven beneficial to correct 
the obese phenotype and improve metabolic abnormalities commonly associated with 
obesity. These approaches provide an experimental proof-of-concept that
hypothalamic inflammation is central to the pathophysiology of obesity;
understanding the details of the roles played by microglia in this process may
help the development of preventive and therapeutic advances in the field. In this
review, we discuss the potential mechanisms underlying hypothalamic microglial
activation in high-fat induced obesity.
EOF
Cidea and Cidec are two members of Cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation
factor-alpha-like effector family proteins, which could be involved in lipid or
fat metabolism. To better understand the roles of Cidea and Cidec in fatty liver 
hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS), 150 healthy 155-day-old Hyline Brown laying hens
were randomly divided into control group (fed with basic diet) and experimental
group (fed with high-energy low-protein [HELP] diet). Analysis of the liver by
tissue sectioning and hematoxylin and eosin staining showed that the HELP diet
induced micro-vesicular steatosis in laying hens. Subsequently, based on the
liver color scores and the range of lipid accumulation observed in histological
examination, we classified livers with <50% vacuolization as mild FLHS and >50%
as severe FLHS. The results showed that the levels of Cidea and Cidec mRNA
expression were markedly elevated in the liver and adipose tissues with FLHS and 
the levels of Cidea and Cidec mRNA expression in the liver with severe FLHS were 
significantly higher than that in the liver with mild FLHS. Thus, the present
study revealed that the Cidea and Cidec genes may be involved in pathways of FLHS
formation.
EOF
PURPOSE: Straight-chain polysaccharides have a greater potential of selectively
adsorbing hydrophobic bile salts than resin-based bile salt sequesters because of
ionic and hydrophobic interactions; hence, they may possess antidiabetic
activity. The feasibility of using cationic polysaccharides made from euglenoid
β-1,3-glucan (referred to as paramylon) as potential antidiabetic agents was
examined by using in vitro and animal experiments.
METHODS: Cationic straight-chain polysaccharides were synthesized from euglenoid 
polysaccharide and glycidyltrimethylammonium chloride. The effects of
administration of the synthetic polysaccharide on metabolic syndrome-related
indicators were examined in high-fat diet-induced obesity mice. The degree of
adsorption of bile salts by the polysaccharides was evaluated using spectroscopic
analysis.
RESULTS: Administration of the cationic paramylon derivatives significantly
reduced body and mesenteric fat weight in high-fat diet-induced obesity mice. A
noteworthy effect was that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) secretion was
approximately three times higher in diet-induced obesity mice receiving cationic 
paramylon derivatives than in those receiving cellulose as a control.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that these cationic paramylon derivatives are
potential GLP-1 secretagogues suitable for further study.
EOF
Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) are transcription factors in the basic
helix-loop-helix PER-ARNT-SIM (bHLH-PAS) protein family that contain internal
hydrophobic cavities within their PAS-A and PAS-B domains. Among HIFs, the HIF-2α
PAS-B domain contains a relatively large cavity exploited for the development of 
specific artificial ligands such as PT2399. Administration of PT2399 could
suppress HIF-2α target gene expression without affecting HIF-1 activity in mice
under hypoxia conditions. A single mutation (S305M) within the HIF-2α PAS-B
domain suppressed HIF-2α activity while conferring resistance to PT2399 in vivo, 
indicating the vital role of PAS-B domain in HIF-2α hypoxia response. In
contrast, the mutant mice did not phenocopy PT2399 intervention in wild-type mice
under metabolic stress. Under a high-fat diet (HFD), the mutant mice exert
enhanced adipogenesis and obtain larger adipose mass and body weight gain
compared to wild type. However, administration of PT2399 along with HFD feeding
sufficiently suppressed HFD-induced body weight and adipose mass increase through
suppression of adipogenesis and lipogenesis. The accompanying decreased lipid
accumulation in the liver and improved glucose tolerance in wild-type mice were
not observed in the mutant mice indicating negative regulation of HIF-2α on
obesity and a complex role for the PAS-B domain in metabolic regulation. Notably,
short-term administration of PT2399 to obese mice decreased adipose mass and
improved metabolic condition. These results indicate a regulatory role for HIF-2α
in obesity progression and suggest a therapeutic opportunity for PT2399 in
obesity and associated metabolic disorders.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The Iroquois homeobox 3 (Irx3) gene has been identified as a
functional long-range target of obesity-associated variants within the fat mass
and obesity-associated protein (FTO) gene. It is highly expressed in the
hypothalamus, and both whole-body knockout and hypothalamic restricted abrogation
of its expression results in a lean phenotype, which is mostly explained by the
resulting increased energy expenditure in the brown adipose tissue. Because of
its potential implication in the pathogenesis of obesity, we evaluated the
hypothalamic cell distribution of Irx3 and the outcomes of inhibiting its
expression in a rodent model of diet-induced obesity.
METHODS: Bioinformatics tools were used to evaluate the correlations between
hypothalamic Irx3 and neurotransmitters, markers of thermogenesis and obesity
related phenotypes. Droplet-sequencing analysis in >20,000 hypothalamic cells was
used to explore the types of hypothalamic cells expressing Irx3. Lentivirus was
used to inhibit hypothalamic Irx3 and the resulting phenotype was studied.
FINDINGS: IRX3 is expressed predominantly in POMC neurons. Its expression is
inhibited during prolonged fasting, as well as when mice are fed a high-fat diet.
The partial inhibition of hypothalamic Irx3 using a lentivirus resulted in
increased diet-induced body mass gain and adiposity due to increased caloric
intake and reduced energy expenditure.
INTERPRETATION: Contrary to the results obtained when lean mice are submitted to 
complete inhibition of Irx3, partial inhibition of hypothalamic Irx3 in obese
mice causes an exacerbation of the obese phenotype. These data suggest that at
least some of the Irx3 functions in the hypothalamus are regulated according to a
hormetic pattern, and modulation of its expression can be a novel approach to
modifying the body's energy-handling regulation. FUND: Sao Paulo Research
Foundation grants 2013/07607-8 (LAV) and 2017/02983-2 (JDJ); NIH grants
R01DK083567 (YBK).
EOF
Reduction in excess calories and improvement in dietary composition may prevent
many primary and secondary cardiovascular events. Current guidelines recommend
diets high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, and legumes; moderate in
low-fat dairy and seafood; and low in processed meats, sugar-sweetened beverages,
refined grains, and sodium. Supplementation can be useful for some people but
cannot replace a good diet. Factors that influence individuals to consume a
low-quality diet are myriad and include lack of knowledge, lack of availability, 
high cost, time scarcity, social and cultural norms, marketing of poor-quality
foods, and palatability. Governments should focus on cardiovascular disease as a 
global threat and enact policies that will reach all levels of society and create
a food environment wherein healthy foods are accessible, affordable, and
desirable. Health professionals should be proficient in basic nutritional
knowledge to promote a sustainable pattern of healthful eating for cardiovascular
disease prevention for both healthy individuals and those at higher risk.
EOF
BACKGROUND: An increasing number of studies have shown that obesity is the key
etiological agent of cardiovascular diseases, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,
type 2 diabetes and several kinds of cancer and that gut microbiota change was
one of the reasons suffering from obesity. At present, the gut microbiota has
gained increased attention as a potential energy metabolism organ. Our recent
study reported that cordycepin, a major bioactive component separated from
Cordyceps militaris, prevented body weight gain in mice fed a high-fat diet
directly acting to adipocytes, however, the effect of cordycepin regulating gut
microbiota keeps unknown.
METHODS: In this research, we synthesized cordycepin (3-deoxyadenosine) by
chemical methods and verified that cordycepin reduces body weight gain and fat
accumulation around the epididymis and the kidneys of rats fed a high-fat diet.
Furthermore, we used high-throughput sequencing on a MiSeq Illumina platform to
test the species of intestinal bacteria in high-fat-diet-induced obese rats.
RESULTS: We found that cordycepin modifies the relative abundance of intestinal
bacteria in high-fat-diet-induced obese rats. However, cordycepin did not alter
the variety of bacteria in the intestine. Cordycepin treatment dramatically
reversed the relative abundance of two dominant bacterial phyla (Bacteroidetes
and Firmicutes) in the high-fat-diet-induced obese rats, resulting in abundance
similar to that of the chow diet group.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that cordycepin can reduce body weight and
microbiome done by cordycepin seems be a result among its mechanisms of obesity
reduction.
EOF
Context: The effect of a lifestyle intervention to reduce liver fat content in
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in humans is influenced by genetics. We
hypothesized that the functionally active amino acid exchange in humans Gly388Arg
(mouse homologue: Gly385Arg) in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4), 
which regulates bile acid, lipid and glucose metabolism, may determine the
dynamics of hepatic lipid accumulation and insulin sensitivity in humans.
Mechanisms of this substitution were studied in mice under normal chow and
high-fat diet.
Design: In humans the Gly388Arg polymorphism was studied for its relationship
with the change of liver fat content and insulin sensitivity during 9 month of a 
lifestyle intervention. We also studied a knock-in mouse strain with an Arg385
allele introduced into the murine FGFR4 gene under normal chow and high-fat diet.
Results: In humans, the FGFR4Arg388 allele did not associate with liver fat
content or insulin sensitivity in overweight and obese subjects before the
lifestyle intervention. However, it associated with less decrease of liver fat
content and less increase of insulin sensitivity during the intervention. In
mice, under normal chow, the FGFR4Arg385 allele associated with elevated hepatic 
triglyceride content, altered hepatic lipid composition, and increased hepatic
expression of genes inducing de novo lipogenesis and glycolysis. Body fat mass
and distribution, glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were unaltered. No
effects of the FGFR4Arg385 allele on glucose or lipid metabolism were found under
high-fat diet.
Conclusion: Our data indicate that the FGFR4Arg388(385) allele affects hepatic
lipid and glucose metabolism specifically during a healthy caloric intake.
EOF
Disorders of lipid metabolism and inflammation play an important role in
atherosclerosis. LongShengZhi capsule (LSZ), a Chinese herbal medicine, has been 
used for treatment of patients with vascular diseases for many years. Herein, we 
determined the effect of LSZ on the progression of established atherosclerotic
lesions in apoE deficient (apoE) mice. ApoE mice were pre-fed high-fat diet (HFD)
for 8 weeks to induce atherosclerosis, then started with LSZ treatment contained 
in HFD for 10 weeks. Although LSZ had little effect on HFD-induced
hypercholesterolemia, it substantially reduced en face and sinus aortic lesions. 
The reduction of lesions was associated with reduced macrophage/foam cell
accumulation by activating ABCA1/ABCG1 expression. LSZ maintained the integrity
of arterial wall by increasing collagen or smooth muscle cell content and
inhibiting cell apoptosis. LSZ also attenuated HFD-induced fatty liver by
down-regulating expression of lipogenic and cholesterol synthetic genes while
activating expression of triglyceride catabolism genes. Moreover, LSZ
demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory effects. In vivo, LSZ reduced serum TNF-α
levels, infiltration of neutrophils, Kupffer cells and expression of inflammatory
cytokines in the liver. In vitro, it inhibited lipopolysaccharide or
palmitate-induced expression of inflammatory cytokines in macrophages. Therefore,
LSZ reduces atherosclerosis by ameliorating hepatic lipid metabolism and
inhibiting inflammation.
EOF
High caloric intake promotes chronic inflammation, insulin resistance, and
chronic diseases such as type-2 diabetes, which may be prevented by food
restriction (FR). The effect of FR on expression of pro-inflammatory and
anti-inflammatory genes in adipose tissue, liver, muscle, and brain was compared.
Male Swiss mice were submitted to FR (FR group) or had free access to food
(control group) during 56 days. The liver, gastrocnemius muscle, brain, and
epididymal white adipose tissue (WAT) were collected for analysis of gene
expressions. FR attenuated inflammation in the liver, brain, and gastrocnemius
muscle but did not markedly change inflammatory gene expression in epididymal
WAT. We concluded that adipose tissue was less responsive to FR in terms of gene 
expression of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory genes.
EOF
PURPOSE: Recent studies suggested that the non-familiar form of Alzheimer's
disease (AD) could be consequence of metabolic syndrome and neuroinflammation.
Elettaria cardamomum extract (EC) has exhibited antidiabetic, antioxidant and
anti-inflammatory properties. This research was conducted to evaluate the effects
of EC on AD-like alterations in rats induced by high fructose and high fat diet
coupled with a single small dose of STZ (25 mg/kg) (T2DM rats).
METHODS: Phytochemical analysis was carried out. Behavioral tests,
immunohistochemical examination, biochemical analysis and gene expression
determination were performed in treated and controls rats.
RESULTS: The majority of EC compounds were terpenoids. EC extract administration 
for 8 weeks attenuated AD-like alterations. It reversed a T2DM-induced decline in
cognitive functions in passive avoidance task and Morris water maze test. It
significantly lowered the elevated hippocampal level of AChE activity and
caspase-3 activity, an indicator of degeneration in T2DM rats Also, it reduced
the accumulation of Aβ and p-tau in the brain of T2DM rats. Furthermore, it
elevated the suppressed glutamate receptor expression (AMPA GluR1 subunit and
NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B). EC treatment reduced hippocampal lipid
peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and augmented antioxidant defensive
system, including superoxide dismutase (SOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH).
Meanwhile, it lowered hippocampal TNFα, IL β1but not IL6 and reduced GSK-3β in
brainT2D rats.
CONCLUSION: EC treatment could ameliorate AD-like alterations in T2DM rats
through activation of blunted insulin signal transduction in the brain,
attenuation of associated oxidative stress and neuroinflammation.
EOF
Diabetes and hypertension are the major causes of chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Epidemiological studies within the last few decades have revealed that
obesity-associated renal disease is an emerging epidemic and that the increasing 
prevalence of obesity parallels the increased rate of CKD. This has led to the
inclusion of obesity as an independent risk factor for CKD. A major complication 
when studying the relationship between obesity and renal injury is that
cardiovascular and metabolic disorders that may result from obesity including
hyperglycemia, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, or the cluster of these disorders 
[defined as the metabolic syndrome, (MetS)] also contribute to the development
and progression of renal disease. The associations between hyperglycemia and
hypertension with renal disease have been reported extensively in patients
suffering from obesity. Currently, there are several obese rodent models
(high-fat diet-induced obesity and leptin signaling dysfunction) that exhibit
characteristics of MetS. However, the available obese rodent models currently
have not been used to investigate the impact of obesity alone on the development 
of renal injury before hypertension and/or hyperglycemia. Therefore, the aim of
this review is to describe the incidence and severity of renal disease in these
rodent models of obesity and determine which models are suitable to study the
independent effects obesity on the development and progression of renal disease.
EOF
The research and the selection of novel probiotic strains from novel niches are
receiving increased attention on their proclaimed health benefits to both humans 
and animals. This study aimed to evaluate the functional properties of Weissella 
strains from arid land living-hosts and to select strains with
cholesterol-lowering property in vitro and in vivo, for use as probiotics. They
were assessed for acid and bile tolerance, antibiotic susceptibility, membrane
properties, antibacterial activity, antiadhesive effect against pathogens to host
cell lines, and cholesterol assimilation in vitro. Our results showed that the
majority of strains revealed resistance to gastrointestinal conditions. All the
strains were nonhemolytic and sensitive to most of the tested antibiotics. They
also exhibited high rates of autoaggregation and some of them showed high
coaggregation with selected pathogens and high adhesion ability to two different 
cell lines (Caco-2 and MIM/PPk). Particularly, W. halotolerans F99, from camel
feces, presented a broad antibacterial spectrum against pathogens, reduced
Enterococcus faecalis and Escherichia coli adhesion to Caco-2 cells, and was
found to reduce, in vitro, the cholesterol level by 49 %. Moreover, W.
halotolerans F99 was evaluated for the carbohydrate utilization as well as the
serum lipid metabolism effect in Wistar rats fed a high-cholesterol diet. W.
halotolerans F99 showed an interesting growth on different plant-derivative
oligosaccharides as sole carbon sources. Compared with rats fed a high-fat (HF)
diet without Weissella administration, total serum cholesterol, low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides levels were significantly (p<0.001)
reduced in W. halotolerans F99-treated HF rats, with no significant change in
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C levels. On the basis of these results,
this is the first study to report that W. halotolerans F99, from camel feces, can
be developed as cholesterol-reducing probiotic strain. Further studies may reveal
their potential and possible biotechnological and probiotic applications.
EOF
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the most common chronic, progressive liver
disease in Western countries. The significance of cellular interactions of the
HGF/c-Met axis in different liver cell subtypes and its relation to the oxidative
stress response remains unclear so far. Hence, the present study is aimed at
investigating the role of c-Met and the interaction with the oxidative stress
response during NASH development in mice and humans. Conditional c-Met knockout
(KO) lines (LysCre for Kupffer cells/macrophages, GFAPCre for α-SMA+ and CK19+
cells and MxCre for bone marrow-derived immune cells) were fed chow and either
methionine-choline-deficient diet (MCD) for 4 weeks or high-fat diet (HFD) for 24
weeks. Mice lacking c-Met either in Kupffer cells, α-SMA+ and CK19+ cells, or
bone marrow-derived immune cells displayed earlier and faster progressing
steatohepatitis during dietary treatments. Severe fatty liver degeneration and
histomorphological changes were accompanied by an increased infiltration of
immune cells and a significant upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression
reflecting an earlier initiation of steatohepatitis development. In addition,
animals with a cell-type-specific deletion of c-Met exhibited a strong generation
of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by dihydroethidium (hydroethidine) (DHE)
staining showing a significant increase in the oxidative stress response
especially in LysCre/c-Metmut and MxCre/c-Metmut animals. All these changes
finally lead to earlier and stronger fibrosis progression with strong
accumulation of collagen within liver tissue of mice deficient for c-Met in
different liver cell types. The HGF/c-Met signaling pathway prevents from
steatosis development and has a protective function in the progression to
steatohepatitis and fibrosis. It conveys an antifibrotic role independent on
which cell type c-Met is missing (Kupffer cells/macrophages, α-SMA+ and CK19+
cells, or bone marrow-derived immune cells). These results highlight a global
protective capacity of c-Met in NASH development and progression.
EOF
Diets containing various docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)/eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA)
ratios protect against liver damage in mice fed with a high-fat diet (HFD).
However, it is unclear whether these beneficial roles of DHA and EPA are
associated with alterations of fatty acid (FA) composition in the liver. This
study evaluated the positive impacts of n-6/n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
(PUFAs) containing different DHA/EPA ratios on HFD-induced liver disease and
alterations of the hepatic FA composition. ApoE-/- mice were fed with HFDs with
various ratios of DHA/EPA (2 : 1, 1 : 1, and 1 : 2) and an n-6/n-3 ratio of 4 : 1
for 12 weeks. After treatment, the serum and hepatic FA compositions, serum
biochemical parameters, liver injury, and hepatic lipid metabolism-related gene
expression were determined. Our results demonstrated that dietary DHA/EPA changed
serum and hepatic FA composition by increasing contents of n-6 and n-3 PUFAs and 
decreasing amounts of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and the n-6/n-3 ratio. 
Among the three DHA/EPA groups, the DHA/EPA 2 : 1 group tended to raise n-3 PUFAs
concentration and lower the n-6/n-3 ratio in the liver, whereas DHA/EPA 1 : 2
tended to raise n-6 PUFAs concentration and improve the n-6/n-3 ratio. DHA/EPA
supplementation reduced the hepatic impairment of lipid homeostasis, oxidative
stress, and the inflammatory responses in HFD-fed mice. The DHA/EPA 2 : 1 group
had lower serum levels of total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol and higher levels of adiponectin than HFD group. The
DHA/EPA 1 : 2 group had elevated serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase,
alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase, without significant change
the expression of genes for inflammation or hepatic lipid metabolism among the
three DHA/EPA groups. The results suggest that DHA/EPA-enriched diet with an
n-6/n-3 ratio of 4 : 1 may reverse HFD-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
to some extent by increasing n-6 and n-3 PUFAs and decreasing the amount of MUFAs
and the n-6/n-3 ratio.
EOF
Atherosclerosis-related morbidity and mortality remain a global concern.
Atherosclerotic disease follows a slow and silent progression, and the transition
from early-stage lesions to vulnerable plaques remains difficult to diagnose.
Inflammation is a key component of the development of atherosclerotic plaque and 
consequent life-threatening complications. This study assessed 111In-DANBIRT as
an in vivo, noninvasive SPECT/CT imaging probe targeting an inflammatory marker, 
Lymphocyte Function Associated Antigen-1 (LFA-1), in atherosclerotic plaques.
Methods. Selective binding of 111In-DANBIRT was assessed using Sprague-Dawley
rats exposed to filtered air and ozone (1 ppm) by inhalation for 4 hours to
induce a circulating leukocytosis and neutrophilia in peripheral blood. After 24 
hours, whole blood was collected and incubated with radiolabeled DANBIRT
(68Ga-DANBIRT and 111In-DANBIRT). Isolated cell component smeared slides using
cytospin technique were stained with Wright-Giemsa stain. Apolipoprotein
E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice were fed either a normal diet or a high-fat diet (HFD)
for 8 weeks. Longitudinal SPECT/CT imaging was performed 3 hours after
administration at baseline, 4, and 8 weeks of HFD diet, followed by tissue
harvesting for biodistribution, serum lipid analysis, and histology. 3D
autoradiography was performed in both groups 24 hours after administration of
111In-DANBIRT. Results. Increased specific uptake of radiolabeled DANBIRT by
neutrophils in the ozone-exposed group was evidenced by the acute immune response
due to 4-hour ozone exposure. Molecular imaging performed at 3 hours using
SPECT/CT imaging evidenced an exponential longitudinal increase in 111In-DANBIRT 
uptake in atherosclerosis lesions in HFD-fed mice compared to normal-diet-fed
mice. Such results were consistent with increased immune response to vascular
injury in cardiovascular and also immune tissues, correlated by 24 hours after
administration of 3D autoradiography. Histologic analysis confirmed
atherosclerotic disease progression with an increased vascular lesion area in
HFD-fed mice compared to normal-diet-fed mice. Conclusion. 111In-DANBIRT is a
promising molecular imaging probe to assess inflammation in evolving atheroma and
atherosclerotic plaque.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The aim of the current study was to investigate the
inhibitory effect of lycopene (LYC), a major carotenoid present in tomato, on
high-fat and high-fructose western diet (HFFD)-induced cognitive impairments and 
the protective effects on HFFD-elicited insulin resistance, lipid metabolism
dysfunction and inflammatory responses in the gut-liver-brain axis.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: We randomly assigned 3-month-old C57BL/6 J mice to three groups
with different diets: the control group, HFFD group and HFFD + LYC group (LYC,
0.03% w/w, mixed into high-fat diet) for 10 weeks.
RESULTS: The results of the Y-maze task and Morris water maze tests demonstrated 
that LYC attenuated HFFD-induced memory loss. Moreover, LYC suppressed
HFFD-elicited synaptic dysfunction and increased the expressions of SNAP-25 and
PSD-95. Furthermore, LYC ameliorated insulin resistance, lipid metabolism
dysfunction and inflammatory responses in the mouse brain and liver. LYC also
prevente.d intestinal barrier integrity damages and decreased the level of
circulating LPS.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated that LYC ameliorated HFFD-induced
cognitive impairments in a mouse model by improving insulin resistance, lipid
metabolism dysfunction and inflammatory responses in the gut-liver-brain axis.
These findings indicate that LYC might be a nutritional strategy for western
diet-induced dysfunction of the central nervous system.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Suppression of adipogenesis has been considered as a potential target
for the prevention and treatment of obesity and associated metabolic disorders,
and the nuclear receptor 4A1 (NR4A1/Nur77) and AMPKα are known to play important 
roles during early and intermediate stages of adipogenesis. Therefore, we
hypothesized that dual targeting Nur77 and AMPKα would show strong inhibitory
effect on adipogenesis.
METHODS: We screened a herbal medicine-based small molecule library to identify
novel natural compounds dual targeting Nur77 and AMPKα, and the antiadipogenic
effects and mechanisms of action of a "hit" compound were studied in 3T3-L1
cells. In vivo antiobesity effects of the compound were also investigated in
high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice.
RESULTS: We identified isoalantolactone (ISO) as a new NR4A1 inactivator that
also activates AMPKα in 3T3-L1 cells. ISO, as expected, inhibited adipogenic
differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, accompanied by reduced mitotic clonal
expansion (MCE) which occurs in the early stage of adipogenesis and decreased
expression of genes required for MCE and cell cycle markers including cyclin A,
cyclin D1. Furthermore, ISO reduced body weight gain and fat mass (epididymal,
subcutaneous, perirenal, and inguinal white adipose tissues) in the high-fat
diet-fed C57BL/6 N mice. Serum levels of triglycerides, aspartate transaminase,
and alanine transaminase and hepatic steatosis were also significantly improved
in the ISO-treated group compared to the high-fat diet control group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that ISO dual targeting Nur77 and AMPKα during
adipogenesis represents a novel class of mechanism-based antiadipogenic agents
for treatment of obesity and associated metabolic disorders, including
hyperlipidemia and fatty liver.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: A causal obesity risk variant in the FTO locus was recently shown to
inhibit adipocyte thermogenesis via increased adipose expression of the homeobox 
transcription factors IRX3 and IRX5. However, causal effects of IRX5 on fat
storage remain to be shown in vivo, and discovery of downstream mediators may
open new therapeutic avenues.
METHODS: 17 WT and 13 Irx5 knockout (KO) mice were fed low-fat control (Ctr) or
high-fat (HF) diet for 10 weeks. Body weight, energy intake and fat mass were
measured. Irx5-dependent gene expression was explored by transcriptome analysis
of epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT), confirmatory obesity-dependent
expression in human adipocytes in vivo, and in vitro knock-down, overexpression
and transcriptional activation assays.
RESULTS: Irx5 knock-out mice weighed less, had diminished fat mass, and were
protected from diet-induced fat accumulation. Key adipose mitochondrial genes
Pparγ coactivator 1-alpha (Pgc-1α) and uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) were
upregulated, and a gene network centered on amyloid precursor protein (App) was
downregulated in adipose tissue of knock-out mice and in isolated mouse
adipocytes with stable Irx5 knock-down. An APP-centered network was also enriched
in isolated adipocytes from obese compared to lean humans. IRX5 overexpression
increased APP promoter activity and both IRX5 and APP inhibited transactivation
of PGC-1α and UCP1. Knock-down of Irx5 or App increased mitochondrial respiration
in adipocytes.
CONCLUSION: Irx5-KO mice were protected from obesity and this can partially be
attributed to reduced adipose App and improved mitochondrial respiration. This
novel Irx5-App pathway in adipose tissue is a possible therapeutic entry point
against obesity.
EOF
Interindividual variation in the composition of the human gut microbiome was
examined in relation to demographic and anthropometric traits, and to changes in 
dietary saturated fat intake and protein source. One hundred nine healthy men and
women aged 21 to 65, with BMIs of 18 to 36, were randomized, after a two-week
baseline diet, to high (15% total energy [E])- or low (7%E)-saturated-fat groups 
and randomly received three diets (four weeks each) in which the protein source
(25%E) was mainly red meat (beef, pork) (12%E), white meat (chicken, turkey)
(12%E), and nonmeat sources (nuts, beans, soy) (16%E). Taxonomic characterization
using 16S ribosomal DNA was performed on fecal samples collected at each diet
completion. Interindividual differences in age, body fat (%), height, ethnicity, 
sex, and alpha diversity (Shannon) were all significant factors, and most samples
clustered by participant in the PCoA ordination. The dietary interventions did
not significantly alter the overall microbiome community in ordination space, but
there was an effect on taxon abundance levels. Saturated fat had a greater effect
than protein source on taxon differential abundance, but protein source had a
significant effect once the fat influence was removed. Higher alpha diversity
predicted lower beta diversity between the experimental and baseline diets,
indicating greater resistance to change in people with higher microbiome
diversity. Our results suggest that interindividual differences outweighed the
influence of these specific dietary changes on the microbiome and that moderate
changes in saturated fat level and protein source correspond to modest changes in
the microbiome.IMPORTANCE The microbiome has proven to influence health and
disease, but how combinations of external factors affect the microbiome is
relatively unknown. Diet can cause changes, but this is usually achieved by
altering macronutrient ratios and has not focused on dietary protein source or
saturated fat intake levels. In addition, each individual's unique microbiome
profile can be an important factor during studies, and it has even been shown to 
affect therapeutic outcomes. We show here that the effects of individual
differences outweighed the effect of experimental diets and that protein source
is less influential than saturated fat level. This suggests that fat and protein 
composition, separate from macronutrient ratio and carbohydrate composition, is
an important consideration in dietary studies.
EOF
Cholesterol metabolism becomes imbalanced during the formation of
macrophage-derived foam cells. Pre-B-cell colony-enhancing factor (PBEF) has
recently been found to affect lipid deposition and inflammation in
atherosclerosis. Here, we aimed to study the effects and molecular mechanism of
Polydatin on atherosclerosis in ApoE-knockout (ApoE -∕- ) mice. Thirty ApoE -∕-
mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks, and then treated with Polydatin
for another 12 weeks. Whole aortas and cryosections were stained with oil red O. 
Blood lipid, PBEF and cytokine levels were measured by ELISA. The mRNAs of
cholesterol metabolism-related genes were determined by qRT-PCR and protein
levels by Western blotting. Cell cholesterol content and viability were
determined in macrophages and RAW 264.7 cells. PBEF siRNA was used to study the
effect of Polydatin on cholesterol metabolism in macrophages incubated with
ox-LDL. Polydatin lowered blood lipids and decreased atherosclerotic lesions in
ApoE -∕- mice. The expression of cytokines and the mRNA of cholesterol
metabolism-related genes were markedly regulated by Polydatin. Meanwhile, PBEF
mRNA and protein were both greatly down-regulated by Polydatin. In vitro,
Polydatin protected RAW 264.7 cells treated by ox-LDL and inhibited cholesterol
uptake by macrophages. The PBEF siRNA result indicates that Polydatin can
modulate cholesterol metabolism in macrophages, partly through down-regulation of
PBEF. In conclusion, Polydatin relieves atherosclerosis injury in ApoE -∕- mice, 
mainly through down-regulation of PBEF and inhibition of PBEF-inducing
cholesterol deposits in macrophages.
EOF
Obesity increases the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) especially in men,
but the molecular mechanism remains obscure. Here, we show that an androgen
receptor (AR)-driven oncogene, cell cycle-related kinase (CCRK), collaborates
with obesity-induced pro-inflammatory signaling to promote non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH)-related hepatocarcinogenesis. Lentivirus-mediated Ccrk
ablation in liver of male mice fed with high-fat high-carbohydrate diet abrogates
not only obesity-associated lipid accumulation, glucose intolerance and insulin
resistance, but also HCC development. Mechanistically, CCRK fuels a feedforward
loop by inducing STAT3-AR promoter co-occupancy and transcriptional
up-regulation, which in turn activates mTORC1/4E-BP1/S6K/SREBP1 cascades via
GSK3β phosphorylation. Moreover, hepatic CCRK induction in transgenic mice
stimulates mTORC1-dependent G-csf expression to enhance polymorphonuclear
myeloid-derived suppressor cell recruitment and tumorigenicity. Finally, the
STAT3-AR-CCRK-mTORC1 pathway components are concordantly over-expressed in human 
NASH-associated HCCs. These findings unveil the dual roles of an
inflammatory-CCRK circuitry in driving metabolic and immunosuppressive
reprogramming through mTORC1 activation, thereby establishing a pro-tumorigenic
microenvironment for HCC development.
EOF
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Lipid droplets (LDs) are dynamic organelles that store neutral
lipids during times of energy excess, and an increased accumulation of LDs in the
liver is closely linked to hepatic steatosis. Our previous studies suggested that
resveratrol (RSV) supplement could improve hepatic steatosis, but the underlying 
mechanism, particularly which related to LD accumulation, has not yet been
elucidated.
METHODS: A high-fat diet (HFD) and palmitic acid were used to induce hepatic
steatosis in mouse liver and hepatocytes, respectively. The effects of RSV on LD 
accumulation were analyzed in vivo and in vitro. The effects of RSV on the
expression levels of LD-associated genes (ATF6, Fsp27β/CIDEC, CREBH, and PLIN1)
were measured by qRT-PCR and western blot assays, followed by KD or
overexpression of SIRT1 and ATF6 with small interfering RNAs or overexpressed
plasmids, respectively. The dual luciferase reporter assay, chromatin
immunoprecipitation assay, coimmunoprecipitation, and proximity ligation assay
were utilized to clarify the mechanism of transcriptional regulation and possible
interaction between SIRT1 and ATF6.
RESULTS: There was a significant increase in the accumulation of LDs in liver and
hepatocytes during the process of HFD-induced steatosis, respectively, which was 
significantly inhibited by RSV supplementation. RSV notably activated SIRT1
expression and decreased the expression levels of ATF6, Fsp27β/CIDEC, CREBH, and 
PLIN1, which are associated with LD accumulation. Interestingly, the inhibitory
effects of RSV on LD accumulation and the associated expression of genes in
hepatocytes were abrogated or strengthened with SIRT1 silencing or
overexpression, respectively. On the contrary, the benefits of RSV in hepatocytes
were eliminated or aggravated when transfected with the overexpressed ATF6 or
ATF6 siRNA, respectively. Furthermore, we found that RSV stimulated SIRT1
expression significantly, which was followed by increased deacetylation and
inactivation of ATF6, resulting in a positive feedback loop for SIRT1
transcription associated with ATF6 binding to the SIRT1 promoter region.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, these findings indicate that RSV supplementation
improves hepatic steatosis by ameliorating the accumulation of LDs, and this
might be partially mediated by a SIRT1/ATF6-dependent mechanism.
EOF
The aim of this study is to investigate hypolipidemic and antioxidant effects of 
Pine needle polysaccharide (PNP) from Pinus massoniana in high-fat diet
(HFD)-induced mice. PNP could significantly improve the serum lipid levels (total
cholesterol, triacylglycerols, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol), enhance the antioxidant enzymes levels (total
antioxidant capability, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase), 
and decrease malondialdehyde (MDA) content in HFD-induced mice. PNP exhibited
distinct antioxidant ability on the superoxide anions, 1,
1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and ferric ion reducing antioxidant power
(FRAP) in vitro. The average molecular weight (Mw) of PNP was 6.17 × 105 Da, and 
mainly of fucose, arabinose, galactose, glucose, galacturonic acid. These results
suggested that PNP might be used as functional foods and natural drugs in
enhancing antioxidant ability and alleviating the hyperlipidemia.
EOF
There is accumulating evidence that the gut microbiota and its composition
dynamics play a crucial role in regulating the host physiological functions and
behavior. Diet composition is the primary modulator of bacterial richness and
abundance in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Macronutrient (fat, sugar, and
protein) and fiber contents are especially important in determining microbiota
composition and its effect on health outcomes and behavior. In addition to food
composition, time of intake and eating patterns have recently been shown to
significantly affect gut bacterial makeup. Diet-driven unfavorable microbiota
composition, or dysbiosis, can lead to an increased production of proinflammatory
by-products such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Increased inflammatory potential is
associated with alteration in gut permeability, resulting in elevated levels of
LPS in the bloodstream, or metabolic endotoxemia. We have found that a chronic
increase in circulating LPS is sufficient to induce hyperphagia in rodents.
Chronic LPS treatment appears to specifically impair the gut-brain axis and
vagally mediated satiety signaling. The vagus nerve relays information on the
quantity and quality of nutrients in the GI tract to the nucleus of solitary
tract in the brain stem. There is evidence that microbiota dysbiosis is
associated with remodeling of the vagal afferent pathway and that normalizing the
microbiota composition in rats fed a high-fat diet is sufficient to prevent vagal
remodeling. Taken together, these data support a role for the microbiota in
regulating gut-brain communication and eating behavior. Bacteria-originating
inflammation may play a key role in impairment of diet-driven satiety and the
development of hyperphagia.
EOF
SCOPE: This study aims to determine the separate and combined effect of a
prebiotic (catechin-rich wine grape seed flour, GSF) and a probiotic (newly
isolated kefir lactic acid bacteria, LAB) on hepatic steatosis of obese mice.
METHODS AND RESULTS: High-fat (HF)-induced obese mice are fed a HF diet
containing 6% microcrystalline cellulose (MCC, control), 10% GSF, orally
administrated LAB, or a combination of GSF and LAB for 9 weeks. There is a
significant reduction of body weight gain and liver weights, plasma insulin
concentrations, and HOMA-IR in all experimental groups compared to control. Total
lipid content, triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol
concentrations of the liver are also significantly lowered. The combination of
GSF and LAB further significantly affects cecum propionate content, plasma
aspartate aminotransferase (AST/GOT), and zonulin concentrations, which is
significantly correlated with hepatic lipid content. Analysis of hepatic
microarray data reveals that genes related to lipid synthesis, bile acid and
cholesterol synthesis, antioxidant activities, oxidative stress, inflammation,
and liver function are significantly modulated following the combination of GSF
and LAB.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that amelioration of HF-induced hepatic steatosis 
after consumption of GSF and LAB is partially mediated via alteration of cecum
propionate and intestinal permeability, which modulates hepatic gene expression.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) contributed to the development and
progression of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), while TLR4 is reported to mediate 
the LPS-induced inflammation in macrophages. However, the potential molecular
mechanisms for TLR4-mediated macrophages activation in T2D have not yet to be
fully clarified.
METHODS: Type 2 diabetes models in C57BL/6J mice were generated by a combination 
administration of streptozotocin (STZ) and a high-fat diet (HFD). Cell
proportions of M1 and M2 macrophages were analyzed using flow cytometry.
Expression profiles of miR-448 and TLR 4 were determined by qRT-PCR and Western
blot.
KEY FINDINGS: LPS/IFN-γ significantly induced M1 polarization in macrophages
characterized by the increased levels of TNF-α, IL-6, IL-12, iNOS and decreased
levels of TNF-β, CCL-22, IL-10 and Arg-1, with a higher expression of toll-like
receptor 4 (TLR4) in vitro. Consistently, T2D mice-derived macrophages had a
significantly elevated expression of TLR4 mRNA and decreased expression of
miR-448. We further confirmed that miR-448 could inhibit TLR4 expression by
targeting the 3'-UTR of TLR4, rescuing the LPS/IFN-γ-induced M1 macrophage
polarization.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results indicated that decreased miR-448 in
diabetic macrophages may contribute to LPS-induced M1 polarization by targeting
TLR4, thereby modulating T2D development.
EOF
Fibrosis is characterized by the excessive deposition of extracellular matrix and
crosslinked proteins, in particular collagen and elastin, leading to tissue
stiffening and disrupted organ function. Lysyl oxidases are key players during
this process, as they initiate collagen crosslinking through the oxidation of the
ε-amino group of lysine or hydroxylysine on collagen side-chains, which
subsequently dimerize to form immature, or trimerize to form mature, collagen
crosslinks. The role of LOXL2 in fibrosis and cancer is well documented, however 
the specific enzymatic function of LOXL2 and LOXL3 during disease is less clear. 
Herein, we describe the development of PXS-5153A, a novel mechanism based,
fast-acting, dual LOXL2/LOXL3 inhibitor, which was used to interrogate the role
of these enzymes in models of collagen crosslinking and fibrosis. PXS-5153A
dose-dependently reduced LOXL2-mediated collagen oxidation and collagen
crosslinking in vitro. In two liver fibrosis models, carbon tetrachloride or
streptozotocin/high fat diet-induced, PXS-5153A reduced disease severity and
improved liver function by diminishing collagen content and collagen crosslinks. 
In myocardial infarction, PXS-5153A improved cardiac output. Taken together these
results demonstrate that, due to their crucial role in collagen crosslinking,
inhibition of the enzymatic activities of LOXL2/LOXL3 represents an innovative
therapeutic approach for the treatment of fibrosis.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of long non-coding
RNA (lncRNA) HOTAIR on hepatic insulin resistance and to explore the possible
underlying mechanism.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Liver tissues of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) patients,
healthy controls, C57BL/6J mice fed with a high-fat diet and db/db mice were
harvested. Meanwhile, the expressions of HOTAIR and SIRT1 were detected.
Subsequently, We HepG2 cells were treated with tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α),
and the insulin resistance model was constructed in vitro. The mRNA expression
levels of HOTAIR and SIRT1 in the insulin resistance model were detected by
quantitative Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR). Insulin sensitivity
in HepG2 cells transfected with lentivirus was evaluated by relative commercial
kits. In addition, protein expression levels of key factors in the AKT/GSK
pathway were detected by Western blot.
RESULTS: HOTAIR was significantly upregulated in T2D patients, C57BL/6J mice fed 
with a high-fat diet and db/db mice. However, SIRT1 expression presented an
opposite changing trend. Moreover, upregulated HOTAIR remarkably promoted hepatic
insulin resistance via the AKT/GSK pathway, which could be reversed by SIRT1
overexpression.
CONCLUSIONS: Upregulated HOTAIR promotes hepatic insulin resistance by inhibiting
SIRT1 expression and AKT/GSK pathway.
EOF
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is an omega-3 fatty acid with anti-inflammatory
effects. To determine the effects of EPA on metabolic pathways in obese adipose
tissues and liver, mice were fed normal chow diet (NCD), high-fat diet (HFD), or 
3% EPA-containing high fat diet (HFD+EPA) for 8 weeks. Metabolomic analysis was
performed using epididymal adipose tissues (epi WAT) and liver. Metabolites that 
were specifically elevated in HFD+EPA, were assessed for their anti-inflammatory 
properties using RAW264.7 macrophage cells. Body and adipose tissue weights were 
significantly higher in HFD than NCD, and lower in HFD+EPA than HFD. Plasma
insulin levels were significantly higher in HFD than NCD, and lower in HFD+EPA
compared with HFD. Plasma monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) levels were
higher in HFD than NCD, and tended to be lower in HFD+EPA than HFD. The levels of
intermediate metabolites in the glycolytic pathways were lower in HFD compared
with NCD and HFD+EPA in both epi WAT and liver, while intermediate metabolites of
the TCA cycles were elevated in HFD and HFD+EPA compared with NCD in epi WAT.
Among the metabolites in epi WAT, the levels of thiaproline, phenaceturic acid,
and pipecolic acid were specifically elevated in HFD+EPA, but not in HFD or NCD. 
Treatment of RAW264.7 cells with thiaproline significantly ameliorated
LPS-induced iNOS expression, while pipecolic acid inhibited LPS-induced IL-1β
expression. These results suggest that EPA normalizes glycolytic pathway
intermediates in both epi WAT and liver, and induces metabolites with
anti-inflammatory properties.
EOF
Mitochondria play a central role in the energy homeostasis in eukaryotic cells by
generating ATP via oxidative metabolism of nutrients. Excess lipid accumulation
and impairments in mitochondrial function have been considered as putative
mechanisms for the pathogenesis of skeletal muscle insulin resistance.
Accumulation of lipids in tissues occurs due to either excessive fatty acid
uptake, decreased fatty acid utilization or both. Consequently, elevated levels
cytosolic lipid metabolites, triglycerides, diacylglycerol and ceramides have
been demonstrated to adversely affect glucose homeostasis. Several recent studies
indicate that reduced insulin-stimulated ATP synthesis and reduced expression of 
mitochondrial enzymes and PPAR-γ coactivator, in high fat feeding (lipid
overload) are associated with insulin resistance. Despite the fact, few notable
studies suggest mitochondrial dysfunction is prevalent in type 2 diabetes
mellitus; it is still not clear whether the defects in mitochondrial function are
the cause of insulin resistance or the consequential effects of insulin
resistance itself. Thus, there is a growing interest in understanding the
intricacies of mitochondrial function and its association with cytosolic lipid
excess. This review therefore critically examines the molecular cascades linking 
cytosolic lipid excess and mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of high 
fat diet-induced insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. The sequential processes 
following the excess intake of high fat diet in skeletal muscle includes,
accumulation of cytosolic fatty acids, increased production of reactive oxygen
species, mutations and ageing, and decreased mitochondrial biogenesis. The
consequent mitochondrial dysfunction is then leading to decreased β-oxidation,
respiratory functions and glycolysis and increased glucolipotoxicity. These
events collectively induce the insulin resistance in skeletal muscle.
EOF
Effect of aging and hyperglycemia on oxidative stress (OS) and inflammation in
dyslipidemic conditions has not been elucidated. Hence, in this study, we
assessed the implications of aging, hyperglycemia, and also the dietary effect of
n-3 fatty acids (α-linolenic acid (ALA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) +
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) on OS and inflammation in dyslipidemic rats.
Dyslipidemia was induced in young and aged rats by feeding high-fat lard (HFL)
diet. Diabetes was induced in young dyslipidemic rats by administering
streptozotocin 30 days after the induction of dyslipidemia. Experimental groups
received diets containing canola oil (HF + CNO) and fish oil (HF + FO) as a
source of ALA and EPA + DHA respectively. After 60 days of feeding rats with
their respective diets, OS and inflammatory markers in serum were assessed.
Dyslipidemia caused significant (p < 0.05) increase in OS (lipid peroxidation,
nitric oxide, and protein carbonyl), pro-inflammatory cytokine (CRP, IL-1β,
MCP-1, and TNF-α), and eicosanoid (PGE2, LTB4, and LTC4) level in serum of both
young and aged rats. Aged dyslipidemic rats presented significantly (p < 0.05)
higher level of these markers compared to young dyslipidemic rats. Hyperglycemia 
onset further augmented OS and inflammatory markers in young dyslipidemic rats
significantly (p < 0.05). Administration of n-3 fatty acids downregulated the
serum markers of OS and inflammation in all the three experimental models. Thus, 
aging and hyperglycemia onset intensified dyslipidemia-induced OS and
inflammation. Dietary preformed EPA + DHA presented larger restorative potentials
than precursor ALA in countering OS and inflammation in all the three
experimental models.
EOF
Since obesity is largely responsible for the growing incidence of renal
tubulointerstitial inflammation, exploration into the mechanisms of
obesity‑associated tubulointerstitial inflammation is essential. Studies have
demonstrated that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a crucial molecule in
the pathogenesis of renal inflammation, including regulating the expression of
inflammatory factors. The purpose of the present study was to further elucidate
the role of mTOR in obesity‑associated tubulointerstitial inflammation. In the
clinical study, obese and healthy subjects were recruited for physical
examination, as well as the collection of blood and urine samples. Further study 
was performed on a high fat diet (HFD)‑induced obese rat model and a cultured
human renal tubular epithelial cell line (HK‑2). The clinical study demonstrated 
that the participants with obesity had increased serum lipids, creatinine (Cr),
urinary albumin to creatinine ratio (UACR) and urinary neutrophil
gelatinase‑associated lipocalin (u‑NGAL). Moreover, the level of urinary monocyte
chemoattractant protein‑1 (u‑MCP‑1) was increased in the participants with
obesity, and it was positively correlated with free fatty acid (FFA), UACR and
u‑NGAL. In the in vivo study, the results indicated that the levels of serum
lipids, Cr and blood urea nitrogen (BUN), as well as 24 h urine protein and
u‑NGAL, were signiﬁcantly increased in the HFD‑fed obese rats. In addition, the
infiltration of CD68+ cells into the renal interstitial area and the release of
interleukin‑1β (IL‑1β) was observed in the kidneys of obese rats. Meanwhile, the 
supernatant from HK‑2 cells treated with palmitic acid stimulated THP‑1 monocyte 
migration. The upregulation of MCP‑1, phosphorylated forkhead boxO1 (p‑FOXO1),
and phosphorylated mTOR (p‑mTOR) was observed in vivo and in vitro. However,
inhibition of mTOR was able to alleviate the above effects. Overall, these
results demonstrated that activated mTOR induced FOXO1 phosphorylation, which
mediates renal MCP‑1 release, causes tubulointerstitial inflammation and
ultimately leads to pathological renal changes and dysfunction. However,
inhibition of mTOR may play a renoprotective role during the progression of
obesity‑associated tubulointerstitial inflammation.
EOF
Previous studies have identified normal-oleic peanuts as a suitable and
economical broiler feed ingredient. However, no studies to date have examined the
use of high-oleic (HO) peanut cultivars as a feed ingredient for laying hens and 
determined the impact of feeding HO peanuts on performance and egg nutritive
qualities. This project aimed to examine the use of HO peanuts as a feed
ingredient for layer hens to determine the effect on performance, egg lipid
chemistry, and quality of the eggs produced. Forty-eight 40-wk-old layer hens
were fed a conventional soybean meal + corn control diet or a HO peanut + corn
diet for 10 wk in conventional battery cages. Body and feed weights were
collected weekly. Pooled egg samples were analyzed for quality, lipid analysis,
and peanut protein allergenicity. There were no significant differences in hen
performance or egg quality as measured by USDA grade quality, egg albumen height,
or egg Haugh unit between the treatment groups. However, eggs produced from layer
hens fed the HO peanut + corn diet had reduced egg weights relative to the
controls (P = 0.0001). Eggs produced from layer hens fed the HO peanut diet had
greater yolk color scores (P < 0.0001), HO fatty acid (P < 0.0001), and
β-carotene (P < 0.0001) levels in comparison to the controls. Eggs produced from 
hens fed the control diet had greater palmitic and stearic saturated fatty acids 
(P < 0.0001), and trans fat (P < 0.0001) content compared to eggs produced from
hens fed the HO peanut diet. All egg protein extracts from all treatments at each
time point were non-reactive with rabbit anti-peanut agglutinin antibodies. This 
study identifies HO peanuts as an abundant commodity that could be used to
support local agricultural markets of peanuts and poultry within the southeastern
United States and be of economic advantage to producers while providing a
potential health benefit to the consumer with improved egg nutrition.
EOF
Aims: Carnitine and choline are major nutrient precursors for gut
microbiota-dependent generation of the atherogenic metabolite, trimethylamine
N-oxide (TMAO). We performed randomized-controlled dietary intervention studies
to explore the impact of chronic dietary patterns on TMAO levels, metabolism and 
renal excretion.
Methods and results: Volunteers (N = 113) were enrolled in a randomized 2-arm
(high- or low-saturated fat) crossover design study. Within each arm, three
4-week isocaloric diets (with washout period between each) were evaluated (all
meals prepared in metabolic kitchen with 25% calories from protein) to examine
the effects of red meat, white meat, or non-meat protein on TMAO metabolism.
Trimethylamine N-oxide and other trimethylamine (TMA) related metabolites were
quantified at the end of each diet period. A random subset (N = 13) of subjects
also participated in heavy isotope tracer studies. Chronic red meat, but not
white meat or non-meat ingestion, increased plasma and urine TMAO (each
>two-fold; P < 0.0001). Red meat ingestion also significantly reduced fractional 
renal excretion of TMAO (P < 0.05), but conversely, increased fractional renal
excretion of carnitine, and two alternative gut microbiota-generated metabolites 
of carnitine, γ-butyrobetaine, and crotonobetaine (P < 0.05). Oral isotope
challenge revealed red meat or white meat (vs. non-meat) increased TMA and TMAO
production from carnitine (P < 0.05 each) but not choline. Dietary-saturated fat 
failed to impact TMAO or its metabolites.
Conclusion: Chronic dietary red meat increases systemic TMAO levels through: (i) 
enhanced dietary precursors; (ii) increased microbial TMA/TMAO production from
carnitine, but not choline; and (iii) reduced renal TMAO excretion.
Discontinuation of dietary red meat reduces plasma TMAO within 4 weeks.
EOF
Obesity and unhealthy nutrition are increasing and affect women of childbearing
age and hence during pregnancy. Despite normal or even high birth weight, the
offspring suffers from long-term metabolic risks. We hypothesized that fetal
growth is disturbed during different intrauterine phases. Underlying molecular
events remain elusive. Female mice were fed either a standard diet (SD) or a
high-fat diet (HFD) after weaning until mating and during pregnancy. Pregnant
mice were euthanized at gestational day (G)15.5 and G18.5, and fetuses and
placentas were removed for analysis. HFD fetuses displayed intrauterine growth
restriction (IUGR) at G15.5, which disappeared until G18.5, indicating
intrauterine catch-up growth during that time period. Main placental findings
indicate decreased canonical Wnt-GSK3β signaling and lower proliferation rates at
G18.5, which goes along with a smaller placental transfer zone. On the other
hand, glucose depots (glycogen cluster) in HFD placentas decreased more strongly 
between G15.5 and G18.5 compared with placentas from SD mothers, and the glucose 
transporter protein GLUT-1 was increased at G18.5 in the HFD group. Maternal
diet-induced obesity causes an IUGR phenotype at the beginning of the third week 
(G15.5) in our mouse model. This phenotype is reversed by the end of the third
week (G18.5) despite a smaller placental transfer zone, probably based on
GSK3β-mediated increased glucose mobilization in the placenta and hence an
increased glucose supply to the fetus.
EOF
Background: Obesity is an independent risk factor for increased influenza
mortality and is associated with impaired memory T cell response, resulting in
increased risk of infection. In this study, we investigated if weight loss would 
restore memory T cell response to influenza.
Methods: Male C57BL/6J mice were fed either low-fat or high-fat diet to induce
obesity. Once obesity was established, all mice received primary infection with
influenza X-31. Following a recovery period, we switched half of the obese group 
to a low-fat diet to induce weight loss. Fifteen weeks after diet switch, all
mice were given a secondary infection with influenza PR8, and memory T cell
function and T cell metabolism were measured.
Results: Following secondary influenza infection, memory T cell subsets in the
lungs of obese mice were decreased compared to lean mice. At the same time, T
cells from obese mice were found to have altered cellular metabolism, largely
characterized by an increase in oxygen consumption. Neither impaired memory T
cell response nor altered T cell metabolism was reversed with weight loss.
Conclusion: Obesity-associated changes in T cell metabolism are associated with
impaired T cell response to influenza, and are not reversed with weight loss.
EOF
Methionine is an essential amino acid that plays important roles in mammalian
metabolism. Interestingly, previous studies have consistently shown that a
methionine-restricted diet (MRD) reduces hepatic lipid levels, reactive oxygen
species production, and oxidative stress damage. However, the mechanisms
responsible for these beneficial effects are unknown. Therefore, our study was
aimed at investigating the hepatic systemic metabolic responses to MRD in
high-fat-diet (HFD) mice and to clarify the possible mechanisms of such
responses. C57BL/6J mice were fed a control diet (0.86% methionine + 4% fat), HFD
(0.86% methionine + 20% fat), or MRD (0.17% methionine + 20% fat) for 22
consecutive weeks, and euthanized at week 11 or week 22. Our results showed that 
HFD inhibited hepatic energy expenditure, induced steatosis and oxidative stress,
and decreased hydrogen sulfide (H2S) production in the mouse liver. MRD reduced
the body weight, liver fat percentage, and plasma and hepatic lipid profiles.
Moreover, MRD decreased lipid synthesis, increased energy metabolism (e.g. lipid 
catabolism and fatty acid oxidation, glycolysis and tricarboxylic acid cycle
metabolism, and amino acid catabolism), enhanced the activity of antioxidant
enzymes, and reduced the levels of oxidative damage products and purine
metabolism in the liver. Furthermore, MRD up-regulated the hepatic gene and
protein expression of cystathionine-γ-lyase (CSE), elevated the hepatic CSE
activity, and promoted hepatic H2S production. These findings suggest that MRD
can ameliorate the hepatic metabolic disorders induced by HFD and especially
reduce hepatic steatosis and oxidative stress likely through increasing hepatic
H2S production.
EOF
Background/Aims: It is known that chronic low-grade inflammation contributes to
the initiation and development of both diabetes and diabetic nephropathy (DN), so
we designed this study to investigate the role of P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome in
DN pathogenesis and the antagonistic effects of artificially cultivated
Ophiocordyceps sinensis (ACOS).
Methods: A rat model of DN caused by high-fat-diet feeding and low-dose
streptozotocin injection and a mouse podocyte injury model induced by
high-glucose (HG) stimulation were established, and the intervention effects of
ACOS on them were observed. The biological parameters of serum and urine and the 
pathological manifestations of kidney tissue were examined. The expression of
mRNA and protein of P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome (NLRP3, ASC, and caspase-1) and 
downstream effectors (IL-1β and IL-18), as well as podocyte-associated molecules,
was determined by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot assay,
respectively.
Results: The DN rats showed to have developed insulin resistance, elevated
fasting blood glucose, increased urinary protein excretion, and serum creatinine 
level as well as corresponding glomerular pathological alterations including
podocyte damages. ACOS significantly antagonized the above changes. The
experiments in vivo and in vitro both displayed that the mRNA and protein
expression of P2X7R, NLRP3, ASC, caspase1 (procaspase-1 mRNA in the gene level
and active caspase-1 subunit P10 in the protein level), IL-1β, and IL-18 was
significantly upregulated and the mRNA and protein expression of
podocyte-associated molecules was significantly changed (downregulation of
nephrin, podocin, and WT-1 expression and upregulation of desmin expression)
indicating podocyte injury in the kidney tissue of DN rats and in the HG-stressed
mouse podocytes, respectively. ACOS also significantly antagonized all the above 
changes.
Conclusion: Our research work suggests that P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome are
involved in the pathogenesis of DN, and ACOS can effectively inhibit the high
expression of P2X7R and the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome, which may
contribute to the therapeutic effects of Ophiocordyceps sinensis.
EOF
Advances in the care and treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) have led to improved
mortality rates; therefore, considerably more individuals with CF are living into
adulthood. With an increased number of CF patients advancing into adulthood,
there is the need for more research that surrounds the aging adult CF patient. It
is important to conduct research and collect results on the aging CF population
to help better prepare the CF patient, who is dealing with the heavy treatment
and financial burden of their disease, build autonomy and increase their quality 
of life. Of note, research has found that social, behavioral, and physical
factors influence the ability of those with CF to follow dietary recommendations.
A primary treatment goal in CF is a high calorie, high protein, and high fat
diet. A socio-economic factor that has not been adequately investigated with
regards to dietary compliance of individuals with CF is food insecurity. The aim 
of this community case study was to document the experiences and estimate the
prevalence of food insecurity among CF patients residing in Idaho. The
correlation between food insecurity and health outcomes (lung function and body
mass index) was also examined. Participants included adult patients and parents
of pediatric patients with CF. Food insecurity rates among CF patients of all
ages were found to be significantly higher than that seen in the overall
community; however, no specific correlation between food insecurity and body mass
index (BMI) or lung function emerged. This case study highlights the need for
continued research around food access issues in this patient population. The data
resulting from this study shows the value of CF advocacy organizations promoting 
efforts to build resources and provide education around food insecurity issues.
EOF
Ketogenic diets (KD) consist of high fat, moderate protein and low carbohydrates.
Studies have suggested that KD may influence oxidative stress by affecting
mitochondrial quantity and/or quality, and perhaps lengthen lifespan. Therefore, 
we determined the effects of KD on multi-organ mitochondria volume and oxidative 
stress markers in rats. Ten month-old male Fisher 344 rats (n = 8 per group) were
provided with one of two isocaloric diets: standard chow (SC) or KD. Rats were
euthanized if: a) vitality scores exceeded a score of 16, b) rapid weight loss,
or c) veterinarian deemed euthanasia necessary. The median lifespan of rats was
higher in KD (762 days) compared to SC (624 days). Citrate synthase activity
(i.e. estimate of mitochondria volume) was higher in the liver (p = 0.034) and
gastrocnemius (p = 0.041) of KD compared to SC. Liver superoxide dismutase 1 and 
catalase antioxidant protein levels were higher in KD, albeit not significant (p 
= 0.094 and p = 0.062, respectively). No significant differences in protein
levels of other antioxidants or markers of lipid and protein oxidative damage
were observed in either the gastrocnemius, liver, or brain. In summary, KD
increased mitochondria volume in liver and gastrocnemius and median lifespan in
rats. Additionally, our data show that the increase in mitochondrial volume
occurred without changes in oxidative damage or antioxidant protein levels in the
gastrocnemius, liver, or brain.
EOF
Objective. Icariin plays a pivotal role in ameliorating atherosclerosis for
animal models although its comprehensive biological role remains largely
unexplored. This study aimed to fully understand the effects of icariin on
atherosclerosis in high-fat diet-induced ApoE-/- mice and investigate mRNA-miRNA 
regulation based on microarray and bioinformatics analysis. Methods. The areas of
atherosclerotic lesions in en face aorta were evaluated. Microarray analysis was 
performed on atherosclerotic aortic tissues. The integrative analysis of mRNA and
miRNA profiling was utilized to suggest specific functions of gene and supply an 
integrated and corresponding method to study the protective effect of icariin on 
atherosclerosis. Results. Icariin attenuated the development of atherosclerosis
that the mean atherosclerotic lesion area was reduced by 5.8% (P < 0.05).
Significant changes were observed in mRNA and miRNA expression patterns. Several 
miRNAs obtained from the miRNA-Gene-Network might play paramount part in
antiatherosclerotic effect of icariin, such as mmu-miR-6931-5p, mmu-miR-3547-5p, 
mmu-miR-5107-5p, mmu-miR-6368, and mmu-miR-7118-5p. Specific miRNAs and GO terms 
associated with icariin in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis were validated
using GO analysis and miRNA-GO-Network. MiRNA-Pathway-Network indicated that
icariin induced miRNAs mainly regulate the signaling pathways of PI3K/Akt
signaling pathway, Ras signaling pathway, ErbB signaling pathway, and VEGF
signaling pathway in aorta atherosclerotic lesion. Conclusions. Our data provides
evidence that icariin is able to exhibit one antiatherosclerotic action by
mediating multiple biological processes or cascades, suggesting the pleiotropic
effects of icariin in atherosclerosis alleviation. The identified gene functional
categories and pathways are potentially valuable targets for future development
of RNA-guided gene regulation to fight disease.
EOF
Despite increasing evidence suggesting a role for NADPH oxidases (Nox) in bone
pathophysiology, whether Nox enzymes contribute to obesity-mediated bone
remodeling remains to be clearly elucidated. Nox2 is one of the predominant Nox
enzymes expressed in the bone marrow microenvironment and is a major source of
ROS generation during inflammatory processes. It is also well recognized that a
high-fat diet (HFD) induces obesity, which negatively impacts bone remodeling. In
this work, we investigated the effect of Nox2 loss of function on
obesity-mediated alteration of bone remodeling using wild-type (WT) and
Nox2-knockout (KO) mice fed with a standard lab chow diet (SD) as a control or a 
HFD as an obesity model. Bone mineral density (BMD) of mice was assessed at the
beginning and after 3 months of feeding with SD or HFD. Our results show that HFD
increased bone mineral density to a greater extent in KO mice than in WT mice
without affecting the total body weight and fat mass. HFD also significantly
increased the number of adipocytes in the bone marrow microenvironment of WT mice
as compared to KO mice. The bone levels of proinflammatory cytokines and
proosteoclastogenic factors were also significantly elevated in WT-HFD mice as
compared to KO-HFD mice. Furthermore, the in vitro differentiation of bone marrow
cells into osteoclasts was significantly increased when using bone marrow cells
from WT-HFD mice as compared to KO-HFD mice. Our data collectively suggest that
Nox2 is implicated in HFD-induced deleterious bone remodeling by enhancing bone
marrow adipogenesis and osteoclastogenesis.
EOF
Our previous study found that geniposide, an agonist of glucagon-like peptide-1
receptor (GLP-1R), protected against cardiac hypertrophy via the activation of
AMP-activated protein kinase α (AMPKα). However, the effects of geniposide on
obesity-related cardiac injury remain unknown. Here, we examine whether
geniposide attenuates obesity-related cardiac dysfunction. Adult mice were fed a 
high-fat diet (HFD) for 24 weeks to induce obesity, with the last 3 weeks
including a 21-day treatment with geniposide. Morphological changes, cardiac
function, and remodeling were assessed. HFD-induced metabolic syndrome, featured 
as obesity, hyperglycemia, and cardiac hypertrophy, was prevented by geniposide
treatment. Geniposide preserved cardiac function in the obese mice. Furthermore, 
geniposide attenuated myocardial inflammation and myocyte apoptosis induced by
HFD. Geniposide activated AMPKα and sirtuin (Sirt1) in vivo and in vitro. Ampkα
deficiency reversed the inhibitory effects of geniposide on cell loss. Sirt1
deficiency abolished the inhibitory effects of geniposide on inflammation in the 
cardiomyocytes. Geniposide completely lost its protective effects on Ampkα
knockout mice after Sirt1 deficiency achieved by a nanoparticle transfection
reagent. The activation of Sirt1 by geniposide was abolished by Glp-1r deficiency
in vitro. Geniposide reverses molecular pathology and cardiac dysfunction via
both AMPKα- and Sirt1-dependent mechanisms. Geniposide is a potential therapeutic
drug for cardiovascular complications induced by obesity.
EOF
Increase in saturated fatty acid (SFA) content in membrane phospholipids
dramatically affects membrane properties and cellular functioning. We sought to
determine whether exogenous SFA from the diet directly affects the degree of
membrane phospholipid unsaturation in adult hearts and if these changes correlate
with contractile dysfunction. Although both SFA-rich high fat diets (HFDs) and
monounsaturated FA (MUFA)-rich HFDs cause the same degree of activation of
myocardial FA uptake, triglyceride turnover, and mitochondrial FA oxidation and
accumulation of toxic lipid intermediates, the former induced more severe
diastolic dysfunction than the latter, which was accompanied with a decrease in
membrane phospholipid unsaturation, induction of unfolded protein response (UPR),
and a decrease in the expression of Sirt1 and stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1),
catalyzing the conversion of SFA to MUFA. When the SFA supply in the heart
overwhelms the cellular capacity to use it for energy, excess exogenous SFA
channels to membrane phospholipids, leading to UPR induction, and development of 
diastolic dysfunction.
EOF
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is increasingly recognized as a
mediator in extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation in diabetic nephropathy.
Previous studies have implicated PAI-1 in adipose tissue (AT) expansion, while
also contributing to insulin resistance. As inflammation is also known to occur
in perirenal AT during obesity, we hypothesized that in a high-fat diet
(HFD)-induced obese mouse model, PAI-1 contributes to macrophage-mediated
inflammation and diabetic nephropathy. The HFD mice showed increased expression
of PAI-1 in perirenal fat and also displayed increased fat weight and macrophage 
numbers. We found that the macrophage polarization, proinflammatory
macrophage-M1-phenotype, including CD11c, IL-6, and monocyte chemoattractant
protein-1, were increased by an HFD and decreased by either the genetic depletion
of PAI-1 or treatment with the PAI-1 inhibitor, PAI-039. Similarly, an enhanced
anti-inflammatory M2-phenotype, including CD206 and IL-10, was accompanied by
either the genetic deletion of PAI-1 or PAI-039 treatment. Furthermore, the
inhibition of PAI-1 reduced HFD-induced renal histological lesions and abated
profibrotic/extracellular-matrix protein. Collectively, our findings provide
support that PAI-1 contributes to the development of inflammation in perirenal
fat and correlates with the development of diabetic nephropathy in HFD-induced
obesity.
EOF
Heat shock protein 72 (HSP72) is a major inducible molecule in the heat shock
response that enhances intracellular stress tolerance. Decreased expression of
HSP72 is observed in type 2 diabetes, which may contribute to the development of 
insulin resistance and chronic inflammation. We used HSP72 knockout (HSP72-KO)
mice to investigate the impact of HSP72 on glucose metabolism and endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) stress, particularly in the liver. Under a high-fat diet (HFD)
condition, HSP72-KO mice showed glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, impaired
insulin secretion, and enhanced hepatic gluconeogenic activity. Furthermore,
activity of the c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) was increased and insulin
signaling suppressed in the liver. Liver-specific expression of HSP72 by
lentivirus (lenti) in HFD-fed HSP72-KO mice ameliorated insulin resistance and
hepatic gluconeogenic activity. Furthermore, increased adipocyte size and hepatic
steatosis induced by the HFD were suppressed in HSP72-KO lenti-HSP72 mice.
Increased JNK activity and ER stress upon HFD were suppressed in the liver as
well as the white adipose tissue of HSP72-KO lenti-HSP72 mice. Thus, HSP72 KO
caused a deterioration in glucose metabolism, hepatic gluconeogenic activity, and
β-cell function. Moreover, liver-specific recovery of HSP72 restored glucose
homeostasis. Therefore, hepatic HSP72 may play a critical role in the
pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Regular exercise training is effective to altering many
markers of metabolic syndrome and its effects are strongly influenced by the type
of consumed diet. Nowadays, resistance training (RT) has been frequently
associated with low-carbohydrate high-fat diet (LCD). After long term these diets
causes body weight (BW) regain with deleterious effects on body composition and
metabolic risk factors. The effects of RT associated with long-term LCD on these 
parameters remain unexplored. We aimed to investigate the effects of RT when
associated with long-term LCD on BW, feed efficiency, body composition, glucose
homeostasis, liver parameters and serum biochemical parameters during BW regain
period in rats.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with LCD (LC groups) or
standard diet (STD) (ST groups). After 10 weeks-diet animals were separated into 
sedentary (Sed-LC and Sed-ST) and resistance-trained (RT-LC and RT-ST) groups (N 
= 8/group). RT groups performed an 11-week climbing program on a ladder with
progressive load. Dual x-ray absorptiometry, glucose tolerance tests and insulin 
tolerance tests were performed at weeks 10 and 20. Liver and serum were collected
at week 21.
RESULTS: RT reduced feed efficiency, BW gain, liver fat and total and LDL
cholesterol, and improved body composition and glucose clearance in animals fed
on STD. In those fed with LCD, RT reduced caloric intake, BW regain, liver fat
and serum triglycerides levels. However, improvement in body composition was
inhibited and bone mineral density and glucose clearance was further impaired in 
this association.
CONCLUSIONS: The LCD nullifies the beneficial effects of RT on body composition, 
glucose homeostasis and impairs some health parameters. Our results do not
support the association of RT with LCD in a long term period.
EOF
Various types of stresses account for the dysregulation of the self-renewal
activity of stem cells, resulting in the functional failure of tissues or
tumorigenesis promotion. Although diets also affect our health, the effect of
harmful dietary stresses on the tissue or stem cell homeostasis remains unclear. 
Recent research has revealed that Spred1, which negatively regulates RAS-MAPK
signaling, protects hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) homeostasis against high-fat
diet (HFD) -induced systemic stress. In steady-state conditions, Spred1
negatively regulates HSC self-renewal in a manner supported by the Rho kinase
(ROCK) activity. In addition, Spred1 deficiency in mice mitigates HSC dysfunction
induced by aging or lipopolysaccharide treatment, enhances the HSC self-renewal
capacity, and prolongs HSC lifespan, but does not induce leukemia because of the 
compensatory upregulation of Spred2-the other Spred family member. Conversely,
HFD triggers ERK hyperactivation and aberrant self-renewal in Spred1-deficient
HSCs, resulting in HSC dysfunction, severe anemia, and the development of lethal 
myeloproliferative neoplasm-like disease. The depletion of the gut microbiota by 
antibiotics restored myeloproliferation, anemia, and HSC reconstitution ability
in HFD-fed Spred1-deficient mice, suggesting that HFD-induced hematopoietic
abnormalities were partially because of alterations in the gut microbiota
composition. Thus, HFD-induced systemic stress affects the regulation of HSC
self-renewal, and Spred1 safeguards HSC homeostasis against the diet-induced
systemic stress.
EOF
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) are an ideal therapy for
type 2 diabetes and, as of recently, for obesity. In contrast to visceral fat,
subcutaneous fat appears to be protective against metabolic diseases. Here, we
aimed to explore whether liraglutide, a GLP-1RA, could redistribute body fat via 
regulating lipid metabolism in different fat depots. After being fed a high-fat
diet for 8 weeks, 50 male Wistar and Goto-Kakizaki rats were randomly divided
into a normal control group, a diabetic control group, low- and high-dose
liraglutide-treated groups and a diet-control group. Different doses of
liraglutide (400 μg/kg/day or 1200 μg/kg/day) or an equal volume of normal saline
were administered to the rats subcutaneously once a day for 12 weeks. Body
composition and body fat deposition were measured by dual-energy X-ray
absorptiometry and MRI. Isotope tracers were infused to explore lipid metabolism 
in different fat depots. Quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot analyses
were conducted to evaluate the expression of adipose-related genes. The results
showed that liraglutide decreased visceral fat and relatively increased
subcutaneous fat. Lipogenesis was reduced in visceral white adipose tissue (WAT) 
but was elevated in subcutaneous WAT. Lipolysis was also attenuated, and fatty
acid oxidation was enhanced. The mRNA expression levels of adipose-related genes 
in different tissues displayed similar trends after liraglutide treatment. In
addition, the expression of browning-related genes was upregulated in
subcutaneous WAT. Taken together, the results suggested that liraglutide
potentially redistributes body fat and promotes browning remodeling in
subcutaneous WAT to improve metabolic disorders.
EOF
Microtubule-actin cross-linking factor-1 (ACF7, or MACF1) regulates cytoskeletal 
focal adhesion dynamics and migration in various tissues. High fat diet (HFD)
induces gut microbiota dysbiosis and metabolic disorders, and increases
intestinal permeability and inflammatory response. Here we investigated the
synergistic effects of intestinal ACF7 conditional knockout (ACF7 cKO) and HFD on
metabolism phenotypes, gut microbiota and intestinal barrier function in mice.
ACF7 cKO and control (ACF7fl/fl) mice (8-week-old) were fed with either chow diet
or HFD, for 16 weeks. The increase of body weight and fat pad weight were
impaired in HFD-fed ACF7 cKO mice, which can be attributed to decreased food
intake and absorption. The metabolic status of HFD-fed ACF7 cKO mice was
dramatically changed when compared to the other groups. In addition, HFD-fed ACF7
cKO mice had increased epithelial cell apoptosis, intestinal permeability and
inflammatory response when compared with the other groups. The ACF7 cKO-induced
changes in alimentation, intestinal barrier function, and gut microbiota were
independent of dietary treatment. Taken together, our studies for the first time 
proved HFD and ACF7 cKO have synergistic damaging effects on intestinal
homeostasis. ACF7 is a crucial protective molecule in HFD-induced intestinal
diseases.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome components, including obesity, dyslipidemia and impaired
glucose homeostasis, become a major public health issue. Muscles play a
predominant role in insulin-mediated glucose uptake, and high fat diets may
negatively affect muscle function and homeostasis. This work aimed to study the
time-course of muscle lipid accumulation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial
dysfunction and their association to impaired glucose homeostasis in rats fed an 
obesogenic diet. Male Wistar rats were fed with a standard or a high fat/high
fructose (HFHFr) diet and sacrificed on 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 weeks. Rats fed the
HFHFr diet developed mild overweight, increased liver and adipose tissue weights 
and glucose intolerance. The impaired glucose homeostasis increased gradually
with the HFHFr diet to become significant on the 12th and 16th weeks of diet. In 
parallel, the muscle lipid composition showed an increase in the saturated fatty 
acids and the monounsaturated fatty acids with a marked decrease in the
polyunsaturated fatty acids. The HFHFr diet also increased muscle contents of
both diacylglycerols and Ceramides. Surprisingly, HFHFr diet did not induce major
muscle mitochondrial dysfunction or oxidative stress. These results indicate that
muscle lipid alterations, as well as impaired glucose homeostasis occur as early 
as the 8th week of HFHFr diet, increase to reach a plateau around the 12th-16th
weeks of diet, and then attenuate towards the end of study. At these diet
treatment durations, muscle mitochondrial activity and oxidative stress remained 
unchanged and do not seem to have a major role in the observed impaired glucose
homeostasis.
EOF
AIM: Obesity is a continually growing pandemic leading to many diseases that
affect the overall quality of life. The widely marketed Garcinia cambogia (GC)
and Raspberry ketone (RK) were used in this study. Despite their known dietetic
effect, however, the metabolomic/signaling pathways involved in this effect are
not fully elucidated. Hence, our study comprehends the possible trajectories of
their combination against obesity and insulin resistance in addition to exploring
their combination merit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adult male Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; viz.,
normal diet (ND), high fat fructose diet (HFFD), HFFD+GC (600mg/kg), HFFD+RK
(55mg/kg) and HFFD+GC+RK. To assess our aim, we determined their effect on body
weight, IPGTT, glucose homeostasis (glucose, insulin, HOMA IR), lipid profile
parameters and SREBP-1c, oxidative stress markers, insulin and leptin signaling
pathways (p-IRS-1/p-AKT/GLUT-4, and leptin/STAT-3), as well as liver and adipose 
tissue histopathology.
RESULTS: GC/RK combinationcaused weight loss, corrected the disturbed glucose and
insulin homeostasis, raised serum levels of HDL anddecreased all other lipid
profile parameters. They also increased Nrf-2 expression, ad GSH, as well as
p-IRS-1/p-Akt/GLUT-4 cue, while they decreased MDA, leptin/STAT-3 and SREBP-1c
content compared to the HFFD group. Furthermore, the GC/RK combination abolished 
apoptosis, fatty changes and inflammation in hepatocytes and decreased sclerotic 
blood vessels and congestion in adipose tissue.
CONCLUSION: Our study highlights the involvement ofp-IRS-1/p-Akt/GLUT-4,
leptin/STAT-3 and SREBP-1c signaling trajectories in the beneficial combination
of GC and RK, besides, the efficient rebalance of the redox status, insulin
resistance and tissue fat deposition confirmed histopathologically.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the effects of regular high-cocoa
chocolate consumption on arterial stiffness and fat oxidation during light- to
moderate-intensity exercise.
METHODS: This randomized, controlled, parallel-group intervention study included 
32 Japanese college students (mean age, 20.7 ± 0.3 y; men, n = 24; women, n = 8) 
who were assigned to either control or intervention groups (n = 16 each). The
control group did not alter their habitual diet or physical activity throughout
the study period. The intervention group consumed 20 g/d (508 mg of cacao
polyphenol) of high-cocoa chocolate for 4 wk. Blood pressure, heart-ankle pulse
wave velocity, cardio-ankle vascular index, body composition, and metabolic
characteristics during exercise at 50% maximal oxygen uptake level were assessed 
before and after the intervention.
RESULTS: Four weeks of high-cocoa chocolate ingestion significantly reduced
heart-ankle pulse wave velocity and cardio-ankle vascular index (%change,
intervention versus control: -2.3 ± 0.9% versus 0.9 ± 0.9%, and -4.8 ± 1.8%
versus 0.7 ± 1.3%, respectively; both P < 0.05). However, blood pressure, weight,
body mass index, body fat, waist circumference, and metabolic characteristics
during exercise such as respiratory exchange ratio did not significantly change
in either group.
CONCLUSIONS: Four weeks of regular high-cocoa chocolate consumption reduced
arterial stiffness after considering blood pressure in healthy young men and
women. However, the habitual consumption of high-cocoa chocolate for 4 wk did not
affect metabolic characteristics during light- to moderate-intensity exercise and
body composition.
EOF
Defective autophagy in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is the principal
cause of atherosclerosis. This study aimed to investigate the effect of
astragaloside IV (AS-IV) on VSMCs autophagy. In vivo, ApoE-/- mice were fed with 
high-fat diet ad libitum for eight weeks, with or without AS-IV (25 mg/kg,
daily). In vitro, human VSMCs were cultured and treated with β-Glycerophosphate
(10 mmol/L) and AS-IV (50 μg/ml). VSMCs autophagy, mineralization, expression of 
p-ERK1/2, p-mTOR, and autophagy-related proteins (LC3 II/I, p62, and Beclin 1)
were detected. Increased autophagy and mineralization was observed in VSMCs in
thoracic aorta of mice and in in vitro VSMCs model of atherosclerosis. AS-IV
administration attenuated the autophagy and mineralization in VSMCs. Reverse
expression profiles of H19 and DUSP5 were observed. AS-IV inhibited DUSP5 and
autophagy-related proteins and increased expression of H19, level of p-ERK1/2 and
p-mTOR. Further, autophagy and mineralization level in VSMCs were in line with
DUSP5 expression level, but in contrast to H19, p-ERK1/2, and p-mTOR profiles. We
demonstrated that AS-IV could attenuate autophagy and mineralization of VSMCs in 
atherosclerosis, which may be associated with H19 overexpression and DUSP5
inhibition.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The role of CB2R gene variants on weight loss after a dietary
intervention has been investigated in few studies.
OBJECTIVE: We evaluate the effect of this genetic variant (rs3123554) of CB2R
gene on cardiovascular risk factors and weight loss secondary to high
monounsaturated fat vs a high polyunsaturated fat hypocaloric diets.
DESIGN: A Caucasian population of 362 obese patients was enrolled. Patients were 
randomly allocated during 3 months to one of two diets (Diet P high
polyunsaturated (PUFAs) fat hypocaloric diet vs, Diet M high monounsaturated
(MUFAs) fat hypocaloric diet).
RESULTS: In both genotype groups (GG vs GA+AA), body weight, body mass index
(BMI), fat mass, waist circumference and systolic blood pressure decreased after 
diet P and M. Body weight, BMI, fat mass and waist circumference were higher in A
allele carriers than non A allele carriers. The improvement of these parameters
was higher in non A allele carriers than A allele carriers. In non A allele
carriers with both diets, the decrease of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol,
insulin and HOMA-IR was higher than A allele carriers after both diets. After
diet P, triglyceride levels decrease in non A allele carriers.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that carriers of the minor allele of rs3123554
variant of CB2R gene lose less body weight during to different hypocaloric diets 
with different fatty acid. Moreover, non A-allele carriers showed a better
response of LDL-cholesterol, HOMA-IR and insulin levels than A-carriers with both
hypocaloric diets.
EOF
There is a large amount of controversy relating dietary fat intake and coronary
artery disease. It has been strongly suggested that saturated fat is not harmful 
and that polyunsaturated fat is either not beneficial or even harmful. Given that
dietary lipids and fibre can influence serum lipids which are strongly linked to 
the risk of coronary artery disease I have reviewed recent evidence linking diet 
and serum lipids to confirm a diet-heart disease link. Over 84 studies have been 
included in a recent meta-analysis and meta-regression which examined the effects
of changes in fat type on lipid levels. An absolute 1% reduction in saturated fat
or trans fat intake as a percentage of energy with replacement by n-6
polyunsaturated fat would lead to a reduction in low density lipoprotein (LDL)
cholesterol of 0.05 mmol/L. In most Western countries the difference in intake
between the highest quintile and the lowest quintile of saturated fat is about
7%, so moving from the highest to the lowest quintile should lower LDL
cholesterol by 0.35 mmol/L or about 10%. This change should lower cardiovascular 
disease rates by at least 10%. Replacing this amount of saturated fat with
carbohydrate of average quality would lower LDL cholesterol by 0.21 mmol/L and
increase fasting triglyceride by 0.17 mmol/L. This combination of effects would
have a neutral effect on cardiovascular disease rates. However, replacement of
trans fat appears to reduce disease rates and total mortality. Substituting low
glycaemic index carbohydrates for high glycaemic index carbohydrates will lower
triglyceride by 15-25% and reduce cardiovascular risk. Large doses of fish oil
will lower triglyceride with a mean lowering of 0.45 mmol/L for a 3.5 g/day
amount. Large doses of soluble fibre (3.5-7.0 g/day) lower LDL cholesterol by
0.2-0.35 mmol/L with Konjac glucomannan being the most effective per gram. Plant 
sterols or stanols lower LDL cholesterol by about 10% for a 2 g/day dose, while
exercise and weight loss lower cardiovascular risk predominantly by lowering
fasting triglyceride. In conclusion, diet lowers LDL cholesterol and triglyceride
and dietary changes should be ultimately linked to a reduced risk of heart
disease.
EOF
This study tested the effects of energy from glucogenic (glucose; GG) or
lipogenic (palm olein; LG) substrates at low (LMP) and high (HMP) metabolizable
protein levels on whole-body energy and N partitioning of dairy cattle. Six
rumen-fistulated, second-lactation Holstein-Friesian dairy cows (97 ± 13 d in
milk) were randomly assigned to a 6 × 6 Latin square design in which each
experimental period consisted of 5 d of continuous abomasal infusion followed by 
2 d of rest. A total mixed ration consisting of 42% corn silage, 31% grass
silage, and 27% concentrate (dry matter basis) was formulated to meet 100 and 83%
of net energy and metabolizable protein requirements, respectively, and was fed
at 90% of ad libitum intake by individual cow. Abomasal infusion treatments were 
saline (LMP-C), isoenergetic infusions (digestible energy basis) of 1,319 g/d of 
glucose (LMP-GG), 676 g/d of palm olein (LMP-LG; major fatty acid constituents
are palmitic, oleic, and linoleic acid), or 844 g/d of essential AA (HMP-C), or
isoenergetic infusions of 1,319 g/d of glucose + 844 g/d of essential AA (HMP-GG)
or 676 g/d of palm olein + 844 g/d of essential AA (HMP-LG). The experiment was
conducted in climate respiration chambers to determine energy and N balance in
conjunction with milk production and composition, nutrient digestibility, and
plasma constituents. Infusion of GG and LG decreased dry matter intake, but total
gross energy intake from the diet plus infusions was not affected by GG or LG.
Furthermore, GG or LG did not affect total milk, protein, or lactose yields.
Infusing GG or LG at the HMP level did not affect milk production differently
than at the LMP level. Infusion of GG stimulated energy retention in body tissue,
increased plasma glucose and insulin concentrations, decreased lipogenic
metabolites in plasma, and decreased milk fat yield and milk energy output.
Nitrogen intake decreased and milk N efficiency increased in response to GG, and 
N retention was not affected. Infusion of LG tended to increase metabolizable
energy intake, increased milk fat yield and milk energy output, increased plasma 
triacylglycerides and long-chain fatty acid concentrations, and had no effect on 
energy retention. Infusion of LG decreased N intake but did not affect milk N
efficiency or N retention. Compared with the LMP level, the HMP level increased
dry matter intake, gross and metabolizable energy intake, and total milk, fat,
protein, and lactose yields. Milk energy output increased at the HMP level, and
protein level did not affect total energy retention. Heat production increased at
the HMP level, but only when GG and LG were infused. The HMP level increased N
intake, milk N output, and plasma urea concentration, tended to increase N
retention, and decreased milk N efficiency. Regardless of protein level, GG
promoted energy retention and improved milk N efficiency, but not through
increased milk protein yield. Infusion of LG partitioned extra energy intake into
milk and had no effect on milk N efficiency.
EOF
We developed a protocol to investigate and optimize the application of
contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) to non-invasive diagnosis of progressing
fatty liver disease in mouse models. Eighteen 4-wk-old male C57 L/J mice were
randomly assigned to one of the three groups and placed on a control diet,
high-fat diet or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis diet for the next 10 wk. After 14 
wk, B-mode imaging and CEUS imaging using a VisualSonics Vevo2100 system were
performed. CEUS imaging and data analysis using three different parameters-peak
enhancement, wash-in rate and wash-in perfusion index-revealed a significant
decrease in representative blood flow in the high-fat diet group versus controls 
and a further significant decrease in the non-alcoholic steatohepatitis group (p 
< 0.001; n = 6/group). In conclusion, compared with B-mode imaging, non-targeted 
CEUS imaging was more sensitive in diagnosing early-stage fatty
infiltration-mediated vascularity changes in liver parenchyma and provided a more
accurate steatohepatitis diagnosis in mouse models.
EOF
Modifying dietary fat composition is important for minimizing cardiovascular
disease risk. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a 5-day, 
high-fat diet rich in cottonseed oil (CSO) or olive oil (OO) on lipid profiles.
Based on previous human and animal models, we hypothesized that the CSO-rich diet
would lead to lower fasting and postprandial lipid levels, whereas the OO-rich
diet would not significantly change lipid levels in 5 days. Fifteen normal-weight
men completed a randomized crossover design with 2 controlled feeding trials
(3-day lead-in diet, prediet visit, 5-day CSO- or OO-rich diet, postdiet visit). 
The 5-day diets (50% fat) were rich in either CSO or OO. At pre- and postdiet
visits, subjects consumed test meals rich in the oil that coincided with their
5-day diet, and blood draws were performed. Fasting total cholesterol,
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides (TG) were lower following 
CSO diet intervention (total cholesterol: 148.40 ± 6.39 to 135.93 ± 6.31 mg/dL;
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol: 92.20 ± 5.57 to 78.13 ± 5.60 mg/dL; TG:
80.11 ± 4.91 to 56.37 ± 5.46 mg/dL for pre- to postdiet, respectively; P < .05). 
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased following CSO diet intervention
(46.67 ± 2.41 to 50.24 ± 2.20 mg/dL for pre- to postdiet, respectively; P < .05).
Postprandial TGs were lower following CSO diet (area under the curve of
954.28 ± 56.90 vs 722.16 ± 56.15 mg/dL/8 h for pre- vs postdiet, respectively;
P < .01). No changes in blood lipids were found following OO diet. A 5-day
CSO-rich diet led to improvements in cholesterol and TGs, whereas no changes were
observed with an OO-rich diet.
EOF
Luteolin and l-theanine have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and possible
antidiabetic activities, and they may synergistically protect against dementia.
Here, we hypothesized that a combination of luteolin and l-theanine would
synergistically act to improve memory function and glucose disturbances in rats
infused with amyloid-β, and the mechanisms underlying these actions were
investigated. Rats that received an amyloid-β(25-35) infusion into the CA1 region
of the hippocampus were fed dextrin (AD-CON), 0.1% luteolin (AD-Lut), 0.2%
l-theanine (AD-Thea), or both 0.05% luteolin and 0.1% l-theanine (AD-LuTh) in
conjunction with a high-fat diet over 8 weeks. AD-LuTh improved memory function, 
as determined by water maze and passive avoidance tests, by potentiating the
hippocampal insulin signaling and reducing inflammation: Luteolin mainly
potentiated insulin signaling via the pAkt➔pGSK➔pTau pathway, and l-theanine
primarily reduced tumor necrosis factor-α. In the metabolomics analysis of the
hippocampus lysates, the concentration of proline, phenylpyruvic acid, and
normetanephrine decreased in the AD-LuTh compared to AD-CON. Norepinephrine
contents were lower in the AD-CON than non-AD rats with a high fat diet with 0.2%
dextrin, whereas AD-Thea and AD-LuTh inhibited the decrease. Both the AD-Lut and 
AD-LuTh increased glucose infusion rates and decreased hepatic glucose output
under basal and hyperinsulinemic conditions, indicating improved whole-body and
hepatic insulin sensitivity. Disturbances in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion
during hyperglycemic clamp were most effectively corrected by the AD-Lut and
AD-LuTh treatments. In conclusion, the hypothesis of the study was accepted. The 
combination of luteolin and l-theanine prevented Alzheimer disease-like symptom, 
possibly by improving hippocampal insulin signaling, norepinephrine metabolisms, 
and decreasing neuroinflammation. The combination of luteolin and l-theanine may 
be a useful therapeutic option for preventing and/or delaying the progression of 
memory dysfunction.
EOF
Obesity induced by high-fat diets (HFDs) is inversely associated with vitamin D
status and bone health. However, the associations and effects of excessive fat
intake on hepatic and renal vitamin D metabolism have not been addressed. The
primary objective was to determine if excessive energy and fat intake, or the
type of fat, affects serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration and whether
this can be explained by an alteration of vitamin D-regulating enzymes in older
mice. The second objective was a follow up of our recent findings that a high
intake of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) is not detrimental to bone in lean
mice and whether this is also true under conditions of diet-induced obesity. In
the study, twenty-one 8-month-old female C57BL/6 J mice were fed ad libitum for
10 weeks with a 10% normal-fat diet (NFD) or 45% HFD enriched with MUFA or
saturated fatty acids (SFA). We found that the HFD, compared with NFD, resulted
in greater energy intake, weight gain, total body fat, and liver fat (P < .05).
Only the high SFA feeding resulted in higher mRNA but lower protein abundance of 
hepatic Cyp2r1 and lower renal Cyp24a1 mRNA expression than the NFD group (P <
.05). Moreover, although bone mineral density did not differ among groups, the
percent difference compared with NFD was significantly lower for SFA (P < .05)
but not MUFA. Also, femoral trabecular bone volume fraction was lower (P < .05)
only in the SFA compared with the NFD group. In conclusion, high SFA and MUFA
feeding differentially affected gene and protein expressions of major vitamin D
hydroxylases compared with NFD, but this was unrelated to the lower circulating
25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration. In addition, only the SFA diet alters
vitamin D metabolism and bone changes, indicating the importance of dietary fat
composition.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Apelin plays a key beneficial role in energy metabolism by increasing
glucose uptake and insulin sensitivity; however, apelin has a short half-life
because it is rapidly cleared from the circulation limiting its therapeutic
benefit. The aim of this study is to create a new approach to treat type 2
diabetes by inducing prolonged expression of apelin in Wharton's jelly-derived
mesenchymal stem cells (WJ-MSCs).
METHODS: A type 2 diabetic rat model was given a high-fat diet combined with
low-dose streptozotocin (STZ) injection. The human WJ-MSCs were isolated and
subsequently transduced with apelin-expressing lentiviral particles
(WJMSCs-apelin), and expression was verified by flow cytometry, Western blot,
ELISA, and RT-PCR analysis. Type 2 diabetic rats were infused with either
WJMSCs-apelin (2 × 106 cells) or an equivalent dose of saline through the tail
vein injection 7 days after STZ injection. The therapeutic effects of each
infusion group were evaluated by monitoring plasma glucose levels and performing 
glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs), insulin tolerance tests (IPITTs), confocal
microscopy, and immunocytochemical analysis for quantitating islet beta cells.
Plasma inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α and anti-inflammatory factors
adiponectin were measured as well.
RESULTS: Type 2 diabetic rats infused with WJ-MSCs-apelin significantly decreased
levels of blood glucose (from 26.03 ± 2.83 to 15.85 ± 2.13 mmol/L on 7 days
P < 0.001, and to 9.41 ± 2.05 on 14 days, P < 0.001). Infusion of WJMSCs-apelin
not only improved significantly insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal, but
also promoted endogenous pancreatic ß cell proliferation (9.6-fold increase
compared to the control group). Furthermore, infusion of the WJMSCs-apelin
consistently increased insulin and C-peptide levels in the plasma, and the above 
effects persisted up to 42 days. The inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α were
significantly decreased, whereas anti-inflammatory factor adiponectin was
significantly increased after WJ-MSC-apelin infusion.
CONCLUSION: In this study, we report a novel approach to treat type 2 diabetic
rats that combines apelin gene therapy with WJ-MSC cell therapy, which could
provide a promising therapeutic option for management of type 2 diabetes
clinically.
EOF
BACKGROUND: L-Fucose (Fuc), a six-deoxy hexose monosaccharide, is present
endogenously in humans and animals and has a wide range of biological functions. 
In the present study, we aimed to examine the effect of Fuc on obesity and
hepatic steatosis in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD).
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were fed a normal chow (NC) or HFD for 18 weeks to induce
obesity and fatty liver. Fuc was administered intragastrically from the 8th week 
to the end of the experiment (18 weeks).
RESULTS: Metagenomic analysis showed that HFD altered the genomic profile of gut 
microbiota in the mice; specifically, expression of alpha-L-fucosidase, the gene 
responsible for Fuc generation, was markedly reduced in the HFD group compared
with that in the NC group. Fuc treatment decreased body weight gain, fat
accumulation, and hepatic triglyceride elevation in HFD-fed mice. In addition,
Fuc decreased the levels of endotoxin-producing bacteria of the
Desulfovibrionaceae family and restored HFD-induced enteric dysbiosis at both
compositional and functional levels.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that Fuc might be a novel strategy to treat
HFD-induced obesity and fatty liver.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Hyperlipidemia is a well-established risk factor for cardiac damage, 
which can lead to cardiovascular diseases. Many studies have shown that Coenzyme 
Q10(CoQ10) protects against cardiac damage in vivo. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the possible protective effects of CoQ10 against cardiac damage in
apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice.
METHODS: Eight-week-old male C57BL/6 and ApoE-/- mice were randomly divided into 
four groups: C57BL/6 mice fed a normal diet (C57BL/6 group); C57BL/6 mice fed a
normal diet + CoQ10 (C57BL/6 + CoQ10 group); ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet
(ApoE-/- HD group), and ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet + CoQ10 (ApoE-/-
HD + CoQ10 group). All groups were fed the different diets for 16 weeks. Blood
samples were obtained from the inferior vena cava and collected in serum tubes.
The samples were then stored at - 80 °C until used. Coronal sections of heart
tissues were fixed in 10% formalin and then embedded in paraffin for histological
evaluation. The remainder of the heart tissues was snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen
for mRNA or immunohistochemical analysis.
RESULTS: The metabolic parameters such as total cholesterol (TC), low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c), and triglycerides (TG) levels were lower in
ApoE-/-HD + CoQ10 mice than in ApoE-/- HD mice. There were significant
pathophysiological changes (H&E, PAS, Masson and CD68 staining) in ApoE-/- mice
in the HD group compared with those in the HD + CoQ10 group. CoQ10 reduced
HD-induced cardiac tissue damage via autophagy (p62 and LC3), as evidenced by
immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and RT-qPCR. CoQ10 also inhibited
inflammation (IL-6 and TNF-α) gene expression in ApoE-/- mice.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that CoQ10 is a potential therapeutic target 
for cardiac damage caused by hyperlipidemia.
EOF
BACKGROUND: While the genetics of obesity has been well defined, the epigenetics 
of obesity is poorly understood. Here, we used a genome-wide approach to identify
genes with differences in both DNA methylation and expression associated with a
high-fat diet in mice.
RESULTS: We weaned genetically identical Small (SM/J) mice onto a high-fat or
low-fat diet and measured their weights weekly, tested their glucose and insulin 
tolerance, assessed serum biomarkers, and weighed their organs at necropsy. We
measured liver gene expression with RNA-seq (using 21 total libraries, each
pooled with 2 mice of the same sex and diet) and DNA methylation with MRE-seq and
MeDIP-seq (using 8 total libraries, each pooled with 4 mice of the same sex and
diet). There were 4356 genes with expression differences associated with diet,
with 184 genes exhibiting a sex-by-diet interaction. Dietary fat dysregulated
several pathways, including those involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor
interaction, chemokine signaling, and oxidative phosphorylation. Over 7000 genes 
had differentially methylated regions associated with diet, which occurred in
regulatory regions more often than expected by chance. Only 5-10% of
differentially methylated regions occurred in differentially expressed genes,
however this was more often than expected by chance (p = 2.2 × 10- 8).
CONCLUSIONS: Discovering the gene expression and methylation changes associated
with a high-fat diet can help to identify new targets for epigenetic therapies
and inform about the physiological changes in obesity. Here, we identified
numerous genes with altered expression and methylation that are promising
candidates for further study.
EOF
Myostatin, a negative modulator of muscle growth, has been considered as a
potential target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D). In previous work, it
was found that myostatin inhibition by adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene
delivery of myostatin propeptide (MPRO) could improve muscle mass and achieve
therapeutic effects on glucose regulation and lipid metabolism in db/db mice.
This study investigated whether pre-intervention of rAAV-mediated expression of
MPRO could lower the incidence of T2D. Three-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were
randomly divided into saline control, rAAV-GFP, and rAAV-MPRO groups, all of
which were fed on a high-fat diet. It was observed that pre-intervention of
rAAV-MPRO prevented high-fat diet-induced hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia. It
also improved glucose tolerance, downregulated serum insulin levels, and
facilitated the growth of skeletal muscle and fat redistribution, with no
significant difference in serum free fatty acid levels and body weight, which
ultimately reduced the incidence of T2D. In addition, pretreatment of rAAV-MPRO
in C2C12 cells increased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, as well as glycogen
synthesis under insulin resistance conditions induced by free fatty acids, with
no significant difference in insulin-stimulated glucose oxidation. Finally, the
study demonstrated that improved glucose metabolism by rAAV-MPRO pretreatment
might be due to the activation of the PI3K/Akt/GSK3β pathway and spurring Glut4
transposition from the cytoplasm to the cytomembrane in C2C12 cells. Based on
these findings, MPRO is most likely to be a new method for the prevention of T2D.
EOF
Hepatic gluconeogenesis makes a significant contribution to the pathogenesis of
obesity and its related insulin resistance. Cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE; also
cystathionase), a principal hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-synthesizing enzyme in the
liver, is involved in glucose and lipid metabolism disorders. However, the roles 
and precise mechanisms of CSE/H2S in obesity and its related insulin resistance
remain obscure. Here we show that CSE knockout exacerbated high-fat diet-induced 
mouse obesity as well as its related insulin resistance. Further study elucidated
that the inhibition of insulin and AMPK signaling pathways by CSE deficiency
resulted in nuclear accumulation of Forkhead box protein O1 and subsequently
promoted hepatic gluconeogenesis. These phenomena can be reversed by NaHS
supplementation. However, in wild-type mice, NaHS treatment ameliorates high fat 
diet-induced obesity and metabolism disorders, indicating that maintaining an
appropriate level of H2S is critical for its mutual change of positive and
negative effects of obesity-associated insulin resistance. Our study reveals a
double-edged sword effect and a novel mechanism for CSE/H2S in obesity associated
with insulin resistance and provides evidence for CSE/H2S as a promising
therapeutic potential target for obesity-related insulin resistance.-Guo, W., Li,
D., You, Y., Li, W., Hu, B., Zhang, S., Miao, L., Xian, M., Zhu, Y., Shen, X.
Cystathionine γ-lyase deficiency aggravates obesity-related insulin resistance
via FoxO1-dependent hepatic gluconeogenesis.
EOF
The effect of oral administration of spray-dried microcapsules of feruloyl
esterase (FE) producing Lactobacillus fermentum CRL1446 (Lf) and Lactobacillus
johnsonii CRL1231 (Lj) on high fat diet-induced obese mice was investigated to
evaluate whether these strains could be used as a biotherapeutic for obesity.
Swiss albino mice were divided into a normal diet fed group receiving empty
microcapsules (control), a high fat diet plus empty microcapsules (HFD group),
HFD plus microcapsules with Lf (HFD-Lf group) and HDF plus microcapsules with Lj 
(HFD-Lj group). Microcapsules containing Lf or Lj at a dose of ~107
cells/day/mouse were given orally for 7 weeks. Body weight gain, adiposity index,
plasma leptin, lipid profiles, glycaemia, insulinemia, oral glucose tolerance,
intestinal FE, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase (GR) activities
were determined. Administration of lactobacilli (HFD-Lf and HFD-Lj groups)
improved metabolic parameters (triglyceride, total cholesterol, low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol levels) and cardiovascular risk indicators (37-46%
decrease of atherogenic index), and reduced body weight gain (29-38%), adiposity 
index (42-62%), plasma leptin levels, liver weight and fat deposition in liver.
Intestinal FE activities significantly increased in HFD-Lf (62%) and HFD-Lj group
(48%), thus improving hepatic GR activity (42% increment) compared to HFD group. 
Moreover, L. johnsonii increased HDL-cholesterol and L. fermentum reduced blood
glucose to levels similar to the control. These FE-producing lactobacilli have
the potential to improve biomarkers involved in obesity by increasing intestinal 
FE activity.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: diet plays a decisive role in the prevention and treatment of
diseases such as obesity, diabetes, allergies and inflammatory diseases. In
addition to this, there are numerous investigations about the role of the
microbiota in the genesis of metabolic diseases, especially obesity and its
comorbidities.
OBJECTIVE: the aim of this review is to discuss the influence of high-fat diets
on dysbiosis and metabolic endotoxemia.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: the intestinal microbial ecosystem has been shown to be
essential in the performance of functions in the host organism, however, several 
factors can lead to an imbalance in the homeostasis of the microbiota, known as
dysbiosis. High-fat diets are associated with a reduction in intestinal bacterial
diversity, changes in membrane integrity, inducing increased permeability and
increased lipopolysaccharide (LPS) translocation, changes in the immune system,
and generation of low-intensity systemic inflammation. The installed endotoxemia 
can be considered as a causal factor of subclinical inflammation related to
several chronic diseases, and as a result of this, it is essential to know the
real impact of hyperlipidic diets on the intestinal microbiota. Thus, it becomes 
essential to identify dietary strategies that can minimize the inflammatory
effects generated from changes in the intestinal microbiota.
EOF
Currently, there are no medications that effectively treat the core symptoms of
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). We recently found that the bacterial species
Lactobacillus (L.) reuteri reverses social deficits in maternal high-fat-diet
offspring. However, whether the effect of L. reuteri on social behavior is
generalizable to other ASD models and its mechanism(s) of action remains unknown.
Here, we found that treatment with L. reuteri selectively rescues social deficits
in genetic, environmental, and idiopathic ASD models. Interestingly, the effects 
of L. reuteri on social behavior are not mediated by restoring the composition of
the host's gut microbiome, which is altered in all of these ASD models. Instead, 
L. reuteri acts in a vagus nerve-dependent manner and rescues social
interaction-induced synaptic plasticity in the ventral tegmental area of ASD
mice, but not in oxytocin receptor-deficient mice. Collectively, treatment with
L. reuteri emerges as promising non-invasive microbial-based avenue to combat
ASD-related social dysfunction.
EOF
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Emerging evidence suggests a close link between gut microbiota
and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, we aimed to
investigate the association between gut microbiota and the DNA methylation of
adiponectin (an adipocyte-specific adipocytokine) in rats, following diet-induced
NAFLD.
METHODS: 50 male SD rats were randomly divided into five groups with or without a
high fat diet (HFD), antibiotics, and probiotics, in order to establish an
imbalanced gut microbiota and probiotic treatment model in NAFLD rats. After 13
weeks of treatment, blood, liver, and cecal tissue samples were collected. Serum 
lipids, liver function indexes by biochemical analyzers, and changes in liver
pathology with hematoxylin-eosin (HE) and masson staining were detected.
Furthermore, the serum adiponectin by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
and liver adiponectin methylation levels in the promoter regions by pyrophosphate
sequencing were determined. High throughput Illumina sequencing targeted
microbial 16S genes, bioinformatics and statistical analysis identified
cecal-associated gut microbiota.
RESULTS: HFD with antibiotic exposure showed the most severe steatohepatitis and 
a severe gut microbiota alteration. Reduced bacterial diversity was also seen and
the abundances of Firmicutes, Lactobacillus, Cyanobacteria, Acidobacteria,
Chlamydiae, Chlamydiales, Rubrobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Blautia, Shewanella,
Bacteroides, Bacteroides acidifaciens, and Bacteroides uniformis, were shown to
be partly reversed by probiotic treatment. Decreased serum adiponectin levels and
increased DNA methylation levels of adiponectin promoter regions were also
markedly associated with the NAFLD progression during gut microbiota alteration.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggested that both gut microbiota alteration and
adiponectin variability may be drivers of NAFLD progression and that targeting
the gut microbiota, such as via administration of a probiotic, may delay NAFLD
progression via adiponectin.
EOF
Epidemiological data suggest that body mass index and obesity are strong risk
factors for depression and anxiety. However, it is difficult to separate cause
from effect, as predisposition to obesity may enhance susceptibility to anxiety, 
or vice versa. Here, we examined the effect of diet and obesity on anxiety-like
behaviors in male and female selectively bred obesity-prone and obesity-resistant
rats, and outbred Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that when obesity-prone and
obesity-resistant rats do not differ in weight or fat mass, measures of
anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze and open field are similar
between the two groups. However, once weight and fat mass diverge, group
differences emerge, with greater anxiety in obesity-prone relative to
obesity-resistant rats. This same pattern was observed for males and females.
Interestingly, even when obesity-resistant rats were "forced" to gain fat mass
comparable to obesity-prone rats (via prolonged access to 60% high-fat diet),
anxiety-like behaviors did not differ from lean chow fed controls. In addition, a
positive correlation between anxiety-like behaviors and adiposity were observed
in male but not in female obesity-prone rats. Finally, diet-induced weight gain
in and of itself was not sufficient to increase measures of anxiety in outbred
male rats. Together, these data suggest that interactions between susceptibility 
to obesity and physiological alterations accompanying weight gain may contribute 
to the development of enhanced anxiety.
EOF
Alternate day fasting (ADF) is an effective dietary strategy for weight loss in
both humans and rats. However, fasting can elicit hyperphagia in rats,
particularly upon access to a calorically dense, high-energy (HE) diet. To
examine the effects of ADF on HE diet preference, male and female Sprague-Dawley 
rats were randomly assigned to receive either ad-libitum or alternate day access 
to both chow and HE food. Meal pattern analysis was conducted to provide a more
detailed explanation of changes in HE preference. ADF rats had a decreased
preference for the HE diet compared to controls. Both male and female ADF rats
increased in overall intake of chow. However, for male ADF rats, the decrease in 
HE preference was driven by an increase in both size and number of chow meals;
for females, it was driven only by an increase in number of chow meals. Meal size
is controlled by both positive feedback (e.g., from the oral cavity) and negative
feedback (e.g., from postoral inhibitory signals). Thus, for males, fasting
appeared to increase orosensory stimulation and/or decrease sensitivity to
inhibitory cues towards chow. For females, fasting appeared to decrease
sensitivity to inhibitory cues towards chow. The decrease in HE preference
observed in the current study may contribute to the effectiveness of ADF as a
dietary strategy for weight loss.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Inositols (INOs) supplementation during pregnancy, specifically the
combination of myo-inositol (MI) and D-chiro-inositol (DCI), has been reported to
improve vascular parameters in women with gestational diabetes mellitus. We
demonstrated previously that offspring born to pregnant mice lacking the
endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS+/-) gene have hypertension (HTN) as
adults and, when fed a high-fat diet (HFD), develop a metabolic syndrome (MS)
phenotype.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to evaluate whether INOs treatment in pregnancy
complicated by MS improves the vascular and metabolic profile in mice offspring
programmed in utero to develop HTN and MS.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Heterozygous eNOS+/- mice fed an HFD manifest a MS
phenotype. Female eNOS+/- mice with MS were bred with a wild-type (WT) male. On
gestational day 1, pregnant females were randomly allocated to receive either a
mixture of INOs (MI/DCI: 7.2/0.18 mg/mL) or water as placebo until delivery. The 
female offspring obtained were genotyped and categorized as: WT (genetically
normal, with eNOS gene) and eNOS+/- offspring (genetically modified, heterozygous
for eNOS gene). Both offspring developed in an abnormal uterine environment due
to maternal MS. At 9-10 weeks of age, the offspring underwent a glucose tolerance
test (GTT) and systolic blood pressure (SBP) measurement. The mice were then
sacrificed, and the carotid arteries were isolated for evaluation of vascular
responses. Responses to phenylephrine (PE), in the presence and absence of a
nonspecific nitric oxide inhibitor (N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester [L-NAME]),
the vasodilator acetylcholine (ACh), and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were
assessed.
RESULTS: The GTT showed lower glucose levels in both eNOS+/-INOs (P = .03) and
WT-INOs (P = .05) offspring born to MS dams on INOs supplementation compared to
offspring born to untreated dams. SBP was higher in eNOS+/- offspring compared to
WT (169 ± 7 vs 142 ± 9 mm Hg, respectively, P = .04) and INOs treatment decreased
SBP in WT-INOs (110 ± 10 mm Hg, P = .01) but not in eNOS+/-INOs offspring.
Maximal (%Max) contractile response to PE was higher in eNOS+/- offspring born to
MS dams and was decreased in those born to MS dams treated with INOs (%Max,
eNOS+/-, 123 ± 7 vs eNOS+/-INOs, 82 ± 11 mm Hg, P = .007). No differences were
seen in PE contractile responses in WT offspring born to MS dams treated or not
treated with INOs (WT, 92 ± 4 vs WT-INOs, 75 ± 7). The L-NAME response was
decreased in eNOS+/-INOs and WT-INOs offspring compared to untreated ones. The
ACh vasorelaxation was impaired in eNOS+/- and WT offspring born to MS dams, and 
maternal INOs treatment improved offspring vascular relaxation in both offspring 
(P = .01 and P = .03, respectively). No differences were seen in response to SNP.
CONCLUSION: Inositols supplementation improved glucose tolerance, SBP, and
vascular responses in adult eNOS+/- and WT offspring born to dams with MS.
Interestingly, WT born to MS dams show an altered vascular profile similar to
eNOS+/- offspring and exhibit an improved response to INOs treatment. Our
findings suggest that the benefits of INOs treatment are more pronounced in
offspring exposed to environmental factors in utero, and less likely in those due
to genetic factors.
EOF
In the current study, we explored the impact of Tudor-staphylococcal nuclease
(SN) on obesity induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) in mice, because the functional 
involvement of Tudor-SN in lipid metabolism in vivo is unknown. HFD-transgenic
(Tg) mice exhibited reductions in hepatic steatosis and systemic insulin
resistance. There was no difference in hepatic lipid accumulation between
chow-fed wild-type (WT) and chow-fed Tg mice; consistently, no difference in
activation of the lipogenic pathway was detected. Overactivation of hepatic
nuclear sterol regulatory element-binding protein (nSrebp2)-2, the central
regulator of cholesterol metabolic proteins, was observed in HFD-Tg livers along 
with improved cholesterol homeostasis, but no such changes were observed in
HFD-WT livers. Consistent results were observed in vitro in α-mouse liver 12
cells treated with palmitate mimicking the HFD state. In addition, global gene
analysis indicated that various downstream targets of nSrebp2, were up-regulated 
in HFD-Tg livers. Moreover, HFD-WT mice displayed islet hypertrophy and
suppression of glucose-induced insulin secretion from islets, whereas HFD-Tg mice
had normal pancreatic islets. This finding suggests that the improved pancreatic 
metabolism of HFD-Tg mice is related to the systemic effect of insulin
resistance, not to the autonomous influence of pancreatic cells. Tudor-SN is
likely to be a key regulator for ameliorating HFD-induced hepatic steatosis and
systemic insulin resistance in vivo.-Wang, X., Xin, L., Duan, Z., Zuo, Z., Wang, 
Y., Ren, Y., Zhang, W., Sun, X., Liu, X., Ge, L., Yang, X., Yao, Z., Yang, J.
Global Tudor-SN transgenic mice are protected from obesity-induced hepatic
steatosis and insulin resistance.
EOF
The present study aimed to investigate the role of microRNA-146a and its adapter 
proteins [interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis
factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6)] in the pathogenesis of
ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized rats in association with the diet-induced obesity
condition. Twenty male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control with
normal diet (ND), OVA-sensitized with normal diet (S + ND), high-fat diet (HFD), 
and OVA-sensitized with high-fat diet (S + HFD). All the animals were fed for 8
weeks with standard pelts or high-fat diet, and were then sensitized and
challenged with OVA or saline for another 4 weeks. The tracheal responsiveness to
methacholine, serum protein levels, and lipid profile levels was measured by the 
ELISA method. Moreover, the gene expression level of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) was
measured in the lung tissue of the rats using the real-time PCR method. Maximum
response to methacholin increased in the S + HFD group in compared with ND, S +
ND, and HFD groups (P < 0.05 to P < 0.001). Moreover, in the S + HFD group the
mRNA expression levels of miRNA-146a increased in the lung tissue (P < 0.001). In
addition, the protein analysis results showed that IRAK1, TRAF6, NF-kB, and IL-1β
protein levels were high in the S + HFD group compared to the ND and HFD groups; 
however, in compared with the S + ND group, only the IL-1β protein level was
higher in the S + HFD group (P < 0.05). These results suggest that a defect in
the NF-kB-miR-146a negative feedback loop may be involved in the pathogenesis of 
obesity associated with OVA-sensitized condition. © 2018 BioFactors, 45(1):75-84,
2019.
EOF
Dietary fat, and particularly fatty acids from hydrolyzed triglycerides, reduce
appetite, whereas, paradoxically, a high-fat diet leads to excess calorie intake 
and weight gain. We therefore hypothesized that the appetite-regulating effects
of dietary fat is perturbed in obesity. Ten men with severe obesity (median BMI
51.0 kg/m2 [range 47.9 to 69.0]) and 10 non-obese men (BMI 24.6 kg/m2 [21.7 to
26.8]) were recruited for a double-blind randomized crossover study. On two
occasions separated by at least one week, participants were given isocaloric
(2660 kJ) and isovolemic (80 ml) loads of either oleic acid (long-chain fatty
acid) or olive oil (triglyceride) containing radiolabeled lipid and water
markers. Post-load scintigraphy, blood sampling and assessment of appetite were
performed for 10 hours after which an ad libitum meal was served. Gastric mean
emptying time (GMET) and oro-coecal transit time (OCTT) was slower in severely
obese than non-obese men (GMETlipid p=0.046, GMETwater p=0.003, OCTT p=0.001).
GMETlipid was slower for oleic acid than olive oil (p<0.001). Secretion of
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) was attenuated in severely obese compared to
non-obese men both in basal (p=0.045) and post-load state (p=0.048), while no
difference was found for cholecystokinin (CCK) and peptide YY. In both groups,
post-load CCK secretion was elevated in response to oleic acid (p<0.001). Ad
libitum energy intake was equally suppressed in both groups. We conclude that
long-chain fatty acids more efficiently suppress appetite than triglycerides also
in men with severe obesity, although overall obesity was associated with delayed 
gut transit and attenuated hormone secretion.
EOF
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a common cause of liver cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, effective therapeutic strategies for
preventing and treating NASH-mediated liver cirrhosis and HCC are lacking.
Cholesterol is closely associated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
a key factor that promotes HCC. Recent reports have demonstrated that statins
could prevent HCC development. In contrast, we have little information on
ezetimibe, an inhibitor of cholesterol absorption, in regards to the prevention
of NASH-related liver cirrhosis and HCC. In the present study, a
steatohepatitis-related HCC model, hepatocyte-specific phosphatase and tensin
homolog (Pten)-deficient (PtenΔhep ) mice were fed a high-fat (HF) diet
with/without ezetimibe. In the standard-diet group, ezetimibe did not reduce the 
development of liver tumors in PtenΔhep mice, in which the increase of serum
cholesterol levels was mild. Feeding of a HF diet increased serum cholesterol
levels markedly and subsequently increased serum levels of VEGF, a crucial
component of angiogenesis. The HF diet increased the number of VEGF-positive
cells and vascular endothelial cells in the tumors of PtenΔhep mice. Kupffer
cells, macrophages in the liver, increased VEGF expression in response to fat
overload. Ezetimibe treatment lowered cholesterol levels and these angiogenetic
processes. As a result, ezetimibe also suppressed inflammation, liver fibrosis
and tumor growth in PtenΔhep mice on the HF diet. Tumor cells were highly
proliferative with HF-diet feeding, which was inhibited by ezetimibe. In
conclusion, ezetimibe suppressed development of liver tumors by inhibiting
angiogenesis in PtenΔhep mice with hypercholesterolemia.
EOF
PURPOSE: To explore the feasibility of spray dried smectite clay particles
fabricated from montmorillonite or laponite materials for adsorbing dietary
lipids and reducing rodent weight gain in vivo.
METHODS: Spray dried montmorillonite (SD-MMT) and spray dried laponite (SD-LAP)
particles were prepared via spray drying. Particle morphology, surface area and
redispersion/aggregation properties in aqueous media were characterized. The
ability of SD-MMT and SD-LAP particles to inhibit lipid digestion kinetics and
adsorb lipid species from solution was assessed during in vitro lipolysis using
proton nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. SD-MMT and SD-LAP particles were
dosed to rodents fed a high-fat diet and their effect on body weight gain was
evaluated.
RESULTS: Both SD-MMT and SD-LAP particles adsorbed significant quantities of
medium chain triglycerides and lipolytic products from solution during in vitro
lipolysis. At a concentration of 50% w/w relative to lipid content, SD-MMT and
SD-LAP particles adsorbed 42% and 94% of all lipid species, respectively. SD-MMT 
and SD-LAP particles also reduced the extent of rodent weight gain relative to
the negative control treatment group and performed similarly to orlistat via an
alternate mechanism of action.
CONCLUSIONS: Spray dried smectite clay particles (SD-MMT and SD-LAP) with
significant adsorptive capacities for dietary lipids and digestion products were 
successfully fabricated. These particles may be developed as novel anti-obesity
treatments with fewer adverse effects than currently marketed treatment options.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of hawthorn extract on serum lipid levels,
pathological changes in aortic atherosclerosis plaque, inflammatory factors, and 
apoptosis-related protein and mRNA expression in apolipoprotein E gene knockout
(ApoE-/-) mice.
METHODS: Thirty-six ApoE-/- mice were fed with a high-fat diet starting at the
age of 8 weeks. Mice were randomly divided into 3 groups by a random number table
including model group, hawthorn extract group, and simvastatin group, 12 mice in 
each group. Twelve 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were fed a basic diet and served as
control. The mice in the control and model groups were administered 0.2 mL saline
daily, the mice in the hawthorn extract and simvastatin groups were administered 
with 50 mg/kg hawthorn extract or 5 mg/kg simvastatin daily for 16 weeks. After
16 weeks, plasma lipids including total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG),
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (HDL-C) were determined by an enzymatic assay. Aortic atherosclerotic
lesions were observed by light microscopy, scanning and transmission electron
microscopy, respectively. Plasma levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1
(MCP-1), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), adiponectin (APN), and hypersensitive C-reactive
protein (hs-CRP) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Protein and mRNA expressions of Bax and Bcl-2 in the aorta were assessed by
Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), 
respectively.
RESULTS: Compared to the control group, the plasma levels of TC, TG and LDL-C
were significantly increased and HDL-C were significantly decreased in the model 
group (P<0.01). Compared to the model group, treatment with hawthorn extract
significantly decreased the plasma levels of TC, TG, and LDL-C and increased the 
plasma level of HDL-C in ApoE-/- mice (P<0.01). The levels of MCP-1, IL-1β, and
hs-CRP in the model group were significantly increased and APN was significantly 
decreased compared with the control group (P<0.01). Compared to the model group, 
treatment with hawthorn extract decreased the levels of MCP-1, IL-1β, and hs-CRP 
and increased the APN level (P<0.01). Compared to the control group, the protein 
and mRNA expression of Bax in the model group were significantly increased and
the expression of Bcl-2 was significantly decreased (P<0.01). Hawthorn extract
also reduced the protein and mRNA expression of Bax and increased the Bcl-2
expression in the aorta (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: Hawthorn extract has anti-atherosclerosis and stabilizing unstable
plaque effects. The mechanism may be related to the inflammation and apoptosis
signaling pathways.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Metabolic syndrome contributing to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) can lead to hepatic dysfunction, steatohepatitis, cirrhosis, and
hepatocellular carcinoma.
AIMS: In this study, we tested whether diet-induced fatty liver in a mouse model 
physiologically mimicked human NAFLD, and whether transcriptional alterations in 
mouse fatty liver signified risk for the development of hepatitis, cirrhosis,
and/or hepatocellular carcinoma.
METHODS: SAMP6 strain mice were fed a low-fat diet or high-fat diet (HFD) for
6 months. Mouse livers were isolated and subjected to histology,
immunohistochemistry, and whole transcriptome RNA sequencing. Sequences were
aligned to the mouse reference genome, and gene expression signatures were
analyzed using bioinformatics tools including Cufflinks, Pathview, Cytoscape,
ClueGO, and GOstats.
RESULTS: Consistent with NAFLD, livers from HFD-fed mice demonstrated steatosis, 
high levels of inflammation, an up-regulation of genes encoding proteins
associated with the complement pathway and immune responses, and down-regulation 
of those associated with metabolic processes. These livers also showed an
up-regulation of genes associated with fibrosis and malignant transformation but 
no histological evidence of either pathobiology or DNA damage.
CONCLUSIONS: HFD-fed mice exhibited NAFLD that had incompletely transitioned from
fatty liver to NASH. Importantly, bioinformatics approaches identified
pre-fibrotic and premalignant signatures, suggesting that the pathogenesis of
both fibrosis and cancer may initiate in fatty livers well before associated
histological changes are evident.
EOF
PURPOSE: Although a high-carbohydrate diet typically shows low-fat intake, the
prevalence of metabolic abnormalities in Asian countries has increased. We
evaluated three types of a high-carbohydrate diet and its association with
cardiometabolic risk factors in the Korean adult population.
METHODS: A total of 14,438 adults (5813 men and 8625 women) who participated in
the 2008-2012 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys were
selected. Dietary data were obtained by a single 24-h recall method.
High-carbohydrate diets were defined using three carbohydrate variables,
including total carbohydrate intake, proportion of energy from carbohydrate, and 
white rice consumption as dietary exposures. Cardiometabolic risk factors
included obesity, abdominal obesity, hypercholesterolemia, atherogenic
dyslipidemia, impaired fasting glucose, and elevated blood pressure. A
multivariate-adjusted logistic regression was performed to examine the
associations between high-carbohydrate diets and cardiometabolic risk factors by 
sex.
RESULTS: Three types of high-carbohydrate diets showed different energy intakes
and food group consumption when individuals in the highest quintile of each type 
were compared. In men, intakes of total carbohydrate and white rice were
inversely associated with obesity, impaired fasting glucose, and elevated blood
pressure and proportion of energy from carbohydrate and white rice consumption
were inversely related to hypercholesterolemia. In women, a high consumption of
white rice was positively associated with impaired fasting glucose. All three
types of high-carbohydrate diets were positively associated with the prevalence
of atherogenic dyslipidemia in both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: Three types of high-carbohydrate diets show different associations
with cardiometabolic risk factors except for unfavorable effects on atherogenic
dyslipidemia.
EOF
Context: Mutations in genes encoding the lipoprotein lipase enzyme, its cofactor,
or transport proteins can cause severe familial hypertriglyceridemia, resulting
in serious complications, such as severe pancreatitis, hepatosplenomegaly, lipid 
encephalopathy, and failure to thrive. Current treatment includes a
low-saturated-fat formula enriched with high medium-chain triglyceride (TGs),
oral fibrates, omega-3 fatty acids, or plasmapheresis.
Case Description: A 71-day-old infant with very severe hypertriglyceridemia and
recurrent pancreatitis associated with a likely pathogenic variant in the LPL
gene was treated successfully with insulin infusion and a locally prepared
low-fat formula feed after stopping breast milk. Subcutaneous insulin was
administered daily from 9 to 30 months of age. His serum TG level was markedly
lower, although higher than normal. No episodes of hypoglycemia were noted.
Fenofibrate and omega-3 fatty acids were ineffective in this infant. At the last 
follow-up visit, he was 36 months old and growing normally. He was consuming a
special meal plan and receiving insulin injections during high-fat meals. Two
other young infants with severe hypertriglyceridemia were growing normally after 
a short course of insulin infusion and the same modified reduced long chain fat
diet.
Conclusions: Insulin is an unusual and affordable therapeutic option for some
patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia and can be helpful in the prevention of
acute and chronic complications. Locally available cereals and millets with high 
crude fiber and a low glycemic index, along with medium chain TGs, was used to
prepare an economical special formula at home to maintain TG concentrations in
the acceptable limits.
EOF
Background: Energy homeostasis is regulated by the hypothalamus but fails when
animals are fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and leptin insensitivity and obesity
develops. To elucidate the possible mechanisms underlying these effects, a
microarray-based transcriptomics approach was used to identify novel genes
regulated by HFD and leptin in the mouse hypothalamus.
Results: Mouse global array data identified serpinA3N as a novel gene highly
upregulated by both a HFD and leptin challenge. In situ hybridisation showed
serpinA3N expression upregulation by HFD and leptin in all major hypothalamic
nuclei in agreement with transcriptomic gene expression data.
Immunohistochemistry and studies in the hypothalamic clonal neuronal cell line,
mHypoE-N42 (N42), confirmed that alpha 1-antichymotrypsin (α1AC), the protein
encoded by serpinA3, is localised to neurons and revealed that it is secreted
into the media. SerpinA3N expression in N42 neurons is upregulated by palmitic
acid and by leptin, together with IL-6 and TNFα, and all three genes are
downregulated by the anti-inflammatory monounsaturated fat, oleic acid.
Additionally, palmitate upregulation of serpinA3 in N42 neurons is blocked by the
NFκB inhibitor, BAY11, and the upregulation of serpinA3N expression in the
hypothalamus by HFD is blunted in IL-1 receptor 1 knockout (IL-1R1 -/- ) mice.
Conclusions: These data demonstrate that serpinA3 expression is implicated in
nutritionally mediated hypothalamic inflammation.
EOF
Background: Developmental exposure to di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) has been
implicated in the onset of metabolic syndrome later in life. Alterations in
neurobehavior and immune functions are also affected by phthalate exposure and
may be linked to the metabolic changes caused by developmental exposure to DEHP. 
Objectives: Our goal was to study the effects of developmental exposure to DEHP
in the context of metabolic syndrome by integrating different parameters to
assess metabolic, neurobehavioral, and immune functions in one model. Methods:
Female C57BL/6J mice were exposed to DEHP through the diet during gestation and
lactation at doses ranging from 3.3 to 100,000 μg/kg body weight/day (μkd).
During a 1-year follow-up period, a wide set of metabolic parameters was assessed
in the F1 offspring, including weekly body weight measurements, food consumption,
physical activity, glucose homeostasis, serum lipids, and endocrine profile. In
addition, neurobehavioral and immune functions were assessed by sweet preference 
test, object recognition test, acute phase protein, and cytokines production.
Animals were challenged with a high fat diet (HFD) in the last 9 weeks of the
study. Results: Increased free fatty acids (FFA) and, high density lipoprotein
(HDL-C) were observed in serum, together with a decrease in glycated hemoglobin
levels in blood of 1-year old male DEHP-exposed offspring after HFD challenge.
For the most sensitive endpoint measured (FFA), a lower bound of the
90%-confidence interval for benchmark dose (BMD) at a critical effect size of 5% 
(BMDL) of 2,160 μkd was calculated. No persistent changes in body weight or fat
mass were observed. At 33,000 μkd altered performance was found in the object
recognition test in males and changes in interferon (IFN)γ production were
observed in females. Conclusions: Developmental exposure to DEHP combined with
HFD in adulthood led to changes in lipid metabolism and neurobehavior in male
offspring and cytokine production in female offspring. Our findings contribute to
the evidence that DEHP is a developmental dyslipidemic chemical, however, more
research is needed to further characterize adverse health outcomes and the
mechanisms of action associated with the observed sex-specific effects.
EOF
Background: As a promising nanocarrier in biomedical fields, silica nanoparticles
(SiNPs) could transfer from the circulatory system to multiple organs. Among
these, blood-liver molecular exchange is a critical factor in biological response
to NPs. However, the potential effect of SiNPs on hepatic lipid metabolism is
unclear. In this study, we employed three models to attempt discover whether and 
how SiNPs disturb hepatic lipid metabolism in vivo and in vitro.
Methods: Firstly we used ICR mice models to evaulated the effects of SiNPs on the
serum and hepatic lipid levels through repeated intravenous administration,
meanwhile, the protein expressions of protein markers of lipogenesis (ACC1 and
FAS), the key enzyme of fatty acid β-oxidation, CPT1A,and leptin levels in liver 
were detected by western blot. For verification studies, the model organism
zebrafish and cultured hepatic L02 cells were further performed. The TLR5 and
adipocytokine-signaling pathway were verified.
Results: Inflammatory cell infiltration and mild steatosis induced by SiNPs were 
observed in the liver. Cholesterol, triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol levels were elevated significantly in both blood serum and liver
tissue, whereas the ratio of high-density:low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was
markedly decreased. Protein markers of lipogenesis (ACC1 and FAS) were elevated
significantly in liver tissue, whereas the key enzyme of fatty acid β-oxidation, 
CPT1A, was decreased significantly. Interestingly, leptin levels in the
SiNP-treated group were also elevated markedly. In addition, SiNPs caused hepatic
damage and steatosis in zebrafish and enhanced hyperlipemia in high-cholesterol
diet zebrafish. Similarly, SiNPs increased the release of inflammatory cytokines 
(IL1β, IL6, IL8, and TNFα) and activated the TLR5-signaling pathway in hepatic
L02 cells.
Conclusion: In summary, our study found that SiNPs triggered hyperlipemia and
hepatic steatosis via the TLR5-signaling pathway. This suggests that regulation
of TLR5 could be a novel therapeutic target to reduce side effects of NPs in
living organisms.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Weight reduction frequently occurs in patients receiving vagus nerve 
stimulation (VNS) therapy. Therefore, we hypothesized that during dietary
intervention for weight loss, auricular electric stimulation (AES), an
alternative of VNS, accelerates weight loss by increasing white adipose tissue
(WAT) browning and increases energy expenditure.
METHODS: C57BL/6J male mice were fed a high-fat diet for 5 wk. to induce obesity,
then switched to a low-fat diet for 5 wk. and allocated into 3 groups to receive 
2 Hz electric stimulation on ears, electrode clamps only, or nothing (AES, Sham
and Ctrl, respectively).
RESULTS: Switching to a low-fat diet reduced body weight progressively in all 3
groups, with the greatest reduction in the AES group. In accordance with a mild
decrease in feed intake, hypothalamus mRNA levels of Npy, AgRP tended to be
reduced, while Pomc tended to be increased by AES. Mice in the AES group had the 
highest concentrations of norepinephrine in serum and inguinal WAT, and
expression levels of uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) and tyrosine hydroxylase in
inguinal WAT. Furthermore, their subcutaneous adipocytes had multilocular and
UCP-1+ characteristics, along with a smaller cell size.
CONCLUSION: AES, by increasing WAT browning, could be used in conjunction with a 
low-fat diet to augment weight loss in addition to suppressing appetite.
EOF
(1) Background: Capsaicin, a chief ingredient of natural chili peppers, enhances 
metabolism and energy expenditure and stimulates the browning of white adipose
tissue (WAT) and brown fat activation to counter diet-induced obesity. Although
capsaicin and its nonpungent analogs are shown to enhance energy expenditure,
their efficiency to bind to and activate their receptor-transient receptor
potential vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1)-to mediate thermogenic effects remains
unclear. (2) Methods: We analyzed the binding efficiency of capsaicin analogs by 
molecular docking. We fed wild type mice a normal chow or high fat diet (± 0.01% 
pungent or nonpungent capsaicin analog) and isolated inguinal WAT to analyze the 
expression of thermogenic genes and proteins. (3) Results: Capsaicin, but not its
nonpungent analogs, efficiently binds to TRPV1, prevents high fat diet-induced
weight gain, and upregulates thermogenic protein expression in WAT. Molecular
docking studies indicate that capsaicin exhibits the highest binding efficacy to 
TRPV1 because it has a hydrogen bond that anchors it to TRPV1. Capsiate, which
lacks the hydrogen bond, and therefore, does not anchor to TRPV1. (4)
Conclusions: Long-term activation of TRPV1 is imminent for the anti-obesity
effect of capsaicin. Efforts to decrease the pungency of capsaicin will help in
advancing it to mitigate obesity and metabolic dysfunction in humans.
EOF
The obesity epidemic has caused a widespread interest in strategies to achieve a 
healthy "high quality" weight loss, where excess fat is lost, while fat free mass
(FFM) is preserved. In this study, we aimed to examine the effect of whey protein
supplementation given before night sleep on FFM preservation during a 4-week (wk)
period on a very low caloric diet (VLCD). Twenty-nine obese subjects (body mass
index (BMI) > 28 kg/m²) completed a 4-week intervention including a VLCD and a
walking program (30 min walking × 5 times per week). Subjects were randomly
assigned to either control (CON, n = 15) or a whey protein supplement (PRO, 0.4 g
protein/kg/day, n = 14), ingested before bedtime. Body composition (dual-energy
X-ray absorptiometry, DXA), blood analysis and physical test were performed pre
and post intervention. We measured nitrogen excretion in three 24 h urine
collections (Day 0, 7 and 28) to assess nitrogen balance. Changes in nitrogen
balance (NB) after 7 and 28 days was different between treatment groups
(interaction p < 0.05). PRO was in NB after 7 days and in positive NB at day 28. 
In contrast, CON was in negative NB at day 7, but in NB at day 28. Nevertheless, 
no significant group differences were observed in the change in pre- and post-FFM
measurements (-2.5 kg, [95% CI: 1.9; 3.1], p = 0.65). In conclusion, ingestion of
a whey protein supplement before bedtime during a 4-week period on a VLCD
improved nitrogen balance, but did not lead to any significant improvement in the
quality of the weight loss in regard to observed changes in body composition and 
health parameters compared with controls.
EOF
The objective of this research was to determine whether chronic (average 3.58 ±
1.56 years) deliberate adherence to low carbohydrate diets (LCDs) is associated
with selected markers of metabolism, risk factors of cardiovascular disease
(CVD), body mass and physical performance in apparently healthy middle-aged men
(n = 12). The control group comprised age, body mass and height matched men using
mixed diets (MDs). The diets used were registered for 7 days and analyzed in
terms of the energy, carbohydrate, fat and protein contents. It was found that
the diets used were isoenergetic, yet varied considerably in carbohydrate and fat
content. The LCDs significantly intensified the ketogenesis process, increased
resting blood total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol
(HDL-C), and heart rate, (HR) and decreased respiratory exchange ratio (RER) in
relation to MD subjects. An exercise trial revealed significant impairment of
exercise in subjects following the LCDs. The results showed that in the case
where the subjects of two investigated groups did not differ in their somatic
variables, long-term adherence to the LCDs was associated with substantially
reduced exercise performance in apparently healthy subjects, along with an
association with a small unfavorable effect on their lipid profile.
EOF
The role of nutrition in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease has long been
debated. The established notion of the deleterious effects of fat is recently
under question, with numerous studies demonstrating the benefits of
low-carbohydrate, high-fat diets in terms of obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and
metabolic derangement. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids,
especially n-3 PUFAs (polyunsaturated fatty acids), are the types of fat that
favor metabolic markers and are key components of the Mediterranean Diet, which
is considered an ideal dietary pattern with great cardioprotective effects.
Except for macronutrients, however, micronutrients like polyphenols, carotenoids,
and vitamins act on molecular pathways that affect oxidative stress, endothelial 
function, and lipid and glucose homeostasis. In relation to these metabolic
markers, the human gut microbiome is constantly revealed, with its composition
being altered by even small dietary changes and different microbial populations
being associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes, thus becoming the target
for potential new treatment interventions. This review aims to present the most
recent data concerning different dietary patterns at both the macro- and
micronutrient level and their association with atherosclerosis, obesity, and
other risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
EOF
AIM: The study hypothesized that testosterone deprivation aggravates cognitive
decline in obesity through increasing oxidative stress, glial activation, and
apoptosis.
METHODS: Male Wistar rats (n = 24) were fed with either normal-diet (ND) or
high-fat diet (HFD) for 24 weeks. At week 13, ND-fed rats and HFD-fed rats were
randomly assigned to two subgroups to receive either a sham-operation or
bilateral-orchiectomy (ORX). Rats were evaluated for metabolic parameters and
cognition at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after the operation. At the end of protocol, the 
reactive oxygen species (ROS), glial morphology, and cell apoptosis were
determined in hippocampus and cortex.
RESULTS: Both HFD-fed groups developed obese-insulin resistance, but ND-fed rats 
did not. HFD-fed rats with sham-operation showed cognitive decline, when compared
to ND-fed rats with sham-operation at all time points. At 4- and 8-week after
ORX, the cognitive impairment of ND-fed rats and both HFD-fed groups was not
different. However, 12-week after ORX, cognitive decline and of glial
hyperactivity of HFD-fed rats had the greatest increase among all groups.
Hippocampal ROS levels and apoptotic cells in both HFD-fed groups were equally
increased, but the cortical ROS levels and apoptotic cells of HFD-fed rats with
ORX were the highest ones.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that testosterone deprivation aggravates
cognitive decline in obesity via increasing oxidative stress, glial activity and 
apoptosis.
EOF
Disruption of macrophage autophagy is a major contributor to macrophage
dysfunction and subsequent inflammation leading to atherosclerosis. Trehalose is 
a natural disaccharide that is able to induce macrophage autophagy-lysosomal
biogenesis and reduce inflammation. Here, we studied the efficacy of intravenous 
trehalose administration in reducing atherosclerotic plaque burden in
high-cholesterol-fed rabbits. Adult male New Zealand white Rabbits were fed with 
a high-fat diet containing 1% cholesterol for 8 weeks followed by a
cholesterol-free diet for the next 4 weeks. In the latter 4-week phase of the
cholesterol-free diet, one group received intravenous trehalose solution at a
dose of 350 mg/kg, three times per week. In the control group, an equivalent
volume of PBS (3 mL) was administered with the same protocol. At the end of the
12th week of the study, all rabbits were anesthetized and aortic arch sections
were collected followed by hematoxylin and eosin staining and assessment of
plaque grading. Fasting serum lipids were also measured using routine enzymatic
methods. At the end of the 12th week, there were no significant differences in
the body weight and blood lipids between the control- and trehalose-treated
groups. Intravenous trehalose administration significantly attenuated
atherosclerotic plaque development as revealed by reduced plaque grading (
P = 0.048) and intima/media thickness ratio ( P = 0.017). Intimal thickening was 
also found to be reduced in the trehalose versus control group, though this
reduction did not reach statistical significance. The present study provided
evidence as to the efficacy of short-term intravenous trehalose administration in
regressing atherosclerotic plaque in high-fat-fed rabbits.
EOF
Endocannabinoids promote energy conservation in obesity, whereas cannabinoid-1
receptor (CB1 R) blockade reverses body weight gain and insulin resistance and
increases energy expenditure. Here we investigated the molecular mechanisms of
the catabolic effects of CB1 R blockade in the liver. Exposure of primary mouse
hepatocytes and HepG2 cells to the CB1 R agonist ACEA inhibited the expression of
Sirt1 and Rictor, a component of mTORC2, and suppressed insulin-induced Akt
phosphorylation at ser473. These effects were reversed by peripheral CB1 R
antagonist JD5037 in control hepatocytes but not in hepatocytes deficient in
Sirt1 and/or Rictor, indicating that these two proteins are required for the CB1 
R-mediated inhibition of insulin signaling. Feeding C57BL/6J mice a high-fat diet
(HFD) inhibited hepatic Sirt1/mTORC2/Akt signaling, and the inhibition was
reversed by rimonabant or JD5037 in wild-type but not liver-specific Sirt1-/-
(Sirt1-LKO) mice, to levels observed in hepatocyte-specific CB1 R-/- (LCB1 R-/- )
mice. A similar attenuation of hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia in obese
wild-type but not Sirt1-LKO mice could be attributed to insufficient reversal of 
HFD-induced mitochondrial ROS generation in peripheral tissues in the latter. In 
contrast, JD5037 treatment was equally effective in HFD-fed wild-type and
Sirt1-LKO mice in reducing hepatic steatosis, increasing fatty acid β-oxidation
and activating AMPK via LKB1, resulting in a similar increase in total energy
expenditure in the two strains. CONCLUSION: peripheral CB1 R blockade in obese
mice improves glycemic control via the hepatic Sirt1/mTORC2/Akt pathway, whereas 
it increases fatty acid oxidation via LKB1/AMPK signaling. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
Based on a non-competitive and selective PTP1B inhibitor reported by us
previously, thirty-nine benzamido derivatives were designed and synthesized as
novel PTP1B inhibitors. Among them, twelve compounds exhibited IC50 values at
micromolar level against human recombinant PTP1B, and most of them exhibited
significant selectivity to PTP1B over TC-PTP and CD45. Further evaluation of the 
most potent compound 27 on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced insulin-resistant (IR)
obese mice indicated that 27 could modulate glucose metabolism and ameliorate
dyslipidemia simultaneously.
EOF
Question: Donor liver organs with moderate to high fat content (i.e. steatosis)
suffer from an enhanced susceptibility to ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI)
during liver transplantation. Responsible for the cellular injury is an increased
level of oxidative stress, however the underlying mechanistic network is still
not fully understood.
Method: We developed a phenomenological mathematical model of key processes of
hepatic lipid metabolism linked to pathways of oxidative stress. The model allows
the simulation of hypoxia (i.e. ischemia-like conditions) and reoxygenation (i.e.
reperfusion-like conditions) for various degrees of steatosis and predicts the
level of hepatic lipid peroxidation (LPO) as a marker of cell damage caused by
oxidative stress.
Results & Conclusions: Our modeling results show that the underlying feedback
loop between the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and LPO leads to
bistable systems behavior. Here, the first stable state corresponds to a low
basal level of ROS production. The system is directed to this state for healthy, 
non-steatotic livers. The second stable state corresponds to a high level of
oxidative stress with an enhanced formation of ROS and LPO. This state is
reached, if steatotic livers with a high fat content undergo a hypoxic phase.
Theoretically, our proposed mechanistic network would support the prediction of
the maximal tolerable ischemia time for steatotic livers: Exceeding this limit
during the transplantation process would lead to severe IRI and a considerable
increased risk for liver failure.
EOF
Objective: This study is aimed to examine the expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in 
cardiac tissue of dyslipidemic Sprague Dawley rats.
Methods: Eight Sprague Dawley strain rats, with 150-200 gram body weight, were
divided into two groups. The control group was fed a standard diet, the positive 
control group was fed a high-fat diet as our previous study for 8 weeks. The
pattern of distribution of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in cardiac muscle cell was examined 
by immunofluorescence and observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope.
Lipid profile was also examined at the end of the study.
Result: Independent t-test showed no differences in ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression 
in cardiac muscle of hypercholesterol-diet-fed Sprague Dawley rat compared to
control.
Conclusion: The expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in cardiac muscle did not change 
after the onset of atherosclerosis.
EOF
Background: In high-fat diet-fed mice, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) has been
shown to play a key role in hepatic steatosis. However, it remains unknown
whether IL-1 beta could be associated with different grades of steatosis in obese
humans.
Materials and Methods: Morbidly obese patients (n = 124) aged 18-65 years were
divided into four groups: no steatosis (controls), mild steatosis, moderate
steatosis, and severe steatosis using abdominal ultrasound. IL-1 beta serum
levels and liver function tests were measured and significant differences were
estimated by one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey test.
Results: IL-1 beta serum levels significantly increased in morbidly obese
patients with mild (11.38 ± 2.40 pg/ml), moderate (16.72 ± 2.47 pg/ml), and
severe steatosis (23.29 ± 5.2 pg/ml) as compared to controls (7.78 ± 2.26 pg/ml).
Liver function tests did not significantly change among different grades of
steatosis.
Conclusion: IL-1 beta serum levels associate better with steatosis degree than
liver function tests in morbidly obese population.
EOF
Glucagon mediated mechanisms have been shown to play clinically significant role 
in energy expenditure. The present study was designed to understand whether
pharmacological mimicking of cold using menthol (TRPM8 modulator) can induce
glucagon-mediated energy expenditure to prevent weight gain and related
complications. Acute oral and topical administration of TRPM8 agonists (menthol
and icilin) increased serum glucagon concentration which was prevented by
pre-treatment with AMTB, a TRPM8 blocker. Chronic administration of menthol (50
and 100 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks) to HFD fed animals prevented weight gain, insulin
resistance, adipose tissue hypertrophy and triacylglycerol deposition in liver.
These effects were not restricted to oral administration, but also observed upon 
the topical application of menthol (10% w/v). The metabolic alterations caused by
menthol in liver and adipose tissue mirrored the known effects of glucagon, such 
as increased glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis in the liver, and enhanced
thermogenic activity of white and brown adipose tissue. Correlation analysis
suggests a strong correlation between glucagon dependent changes and energy
expenditure markers. Interestingly, in-vitro treatment of the serum of menthol
treated mice increased energy expenditure markers in mature 3T3L1 adipocytes,
which was prevented in the presence of non-competitive glucagon receptor
antagonist, L-168,049, indicating that menthol-induced increase in serum glucagon
is responsible for increase in energy expenditure phenotype. In conclusion, the
present work provides evidence that glucagon plays an important role in the
preventive effect of menthol against HFD-induced weight gain and related
complications.
EOF
Palatable foods (fat and sweet) induce hyperphagia, and facilitate the
development of obesity. Whether and how overnutrition increases appetite through 
the adipose-to-brain axis is unclear. O-linked beta-D-N-acetylglucosamine
(O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) couples nutrient cues to O-GlcNAcylation of
intracellular proteins at serine/threonine residues. Chronic dysregulation of
O-GlcNAc signaling contributes to metabolic diseases. Here we show that adipocyte
OGT is essential for high fat diet-induced hyperphagia, but is dispensable for
baseline food intake. Adipocyte OGT stimulates hyperphagia by transcriptional
activation of de novo lipid desaturation and accumulation of N-arachidonyl
ethanolamine (AEA), an endogenous appetite-inducing cannabinoid (CB).
Pharmacological manipulation of peripheral CB1 signaling regulates hyperphagia in
an adipocyte OGT-dependent manner. These findings define adipocyte OGT as a fat
sensor that regulates peripheral lipid signals, and uncover an unexpected
adipose-to-brain axis to induce hyperphagia and obesity.
EOF
Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) is released primarily from
osteoblasts/osteocytes in bone. In cooperation with the transmembrane protein
Klotho, FGF23 is a powerful inhibitor of 1α 25OH Vitamin D Hydroxylase (Cyp27b1) 
and thus of the formation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3). As
1,25(OH)2D3 up-regulates intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption, the
downregulation of 1,25(OH)2D3 synthesis counteracts phosphate excess and tissue
calcification. FGF23 also directly inhibits renal phosphate reabsorption. Other
actions of FGF23 include triggering of cardiac hypertrophy. FGF23 formation
and/or release are stimulated by 1,25(OH)2D3, phosphate excess, Ca2+, PTH,
leptin, catecholamines, mineralocorticoids, volume depletion, lithium, high fat
diet, iron deficiency, TNFα and TGFß2. The stimulating effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 on
FGF23 expression is dependent on RAC1/PAK1 induced actin-polymerisation.
Intracellular signaling involved in the stimulation of FGF23 release also
includes increases in the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) following
intracellular Ca2+ release and store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE). SOCE is
accomplished by the Ca2+ release-activated calcium channel protein 1 (Orai1) and 
its stimulator stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1). Expression of Orai1, SOCE 
and FGF23-formation are up-regulated by the proinflammatory transcription factor 
NFκB. The present brief review describes the cellular mechanisms involved in
FGF23 regulation and its sensitivity to both phosphate metabolism and
inflammation. The case is made that up-regulation of FGF23 by inflammatory
mediators and signaling may amplify inflammation by inhibiting formation of the
anti-inflammatory 1,25(OH)2D3.
EOF
As the seed extract from Camellia japonica (CJ) contains saponins, inhibitory
effects of pancreatic lipase activity and body fat accumulation are expected. To 
investigate the anti-obesity effect of CJ seed extract, ICR mice were fed with a 
high-fat diet that was either supplemented or not with 1% CJ seed extract for 53 
days. Including CJ seed extract in the high-fat diets of mice increased fecal fat
excretion and decreased the body weight gain and lipid parameters in plasma and
in the liver. In addition, lipid-induced hypertriglyceridemia was delayed by a
single administration of CJ in ddY mice. Small intestinal transit was increased
in ddY mice that received the CJ seed extract, but gastric emptying remained
unchanged. These data demonstrate that CJ seed extract can suppress excess fat
absorption, which can lead to the prevention of diet-induced obesity.
EOF
To elucidate the transcriptomic changes of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) in
high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice, we defined their hepatic transcriptome by RNA
sequencing. Aberrant expression of 37 representative lncRNAs and 254
protein-coding RNAs was observed in the livers of HFD-fed mice with insulin
resistance compared with the livers from control mice. Of these, 24 lncRNAs and
179 protein-coding RNAs were upregulated, whereas 13 lncRNAs and 75
protein-coding RNAs were downregulated. Functional analyses showed that the
aberrantly expressed protein-coding RNAs were enriched in various lipid metabolic
processes and in the insulin signaling pathway. Genomic juxtaposition and
coexpression patterns identified six pairs of aberrantly expressed lncRNAs and
protein-coding genes, consisting of five lncRNAs and five protein-coding genes.
Four of these protein-coding genes are targeted genes upregulated by PPARα. As
expected, the corresponding lncRNAs were significantly elevated in AML12 cells
treated with palmitic acid or the PPARα agonist, WY14643. In Hepa1-6 cells,
knockdown of NONMMUG027912 increased the cellular cholesterol level, the
expression of cholesterol biosynthesis genes and proteins, and the HMG-CoA
reductase activity. This genome-wide profiling of lncRNAs in HFD-fed mice reveals
one lncRNA, NONMMUG027912, which is potentially regulated by PPARα and is
implicated in the process of cholesterol biosynthesis.
EOF
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activation reduces oxidative stress, inhibits inflammatory
responses, and retards cellular senescence in endothelial cells in mouse models
of diabetes. However, whether SIRT1 also plays a protective role in vascular
dysfunction of diabetic and obese mice is not fully characterized. Previous work 
showed that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor δ (PPARδ) is beneficial in
diabetic vascular dysfunction. Whether PPARδ is involved in the beneficial effect
of SIRT1 on vascular endothelial function is unknown. We used mice with
overexpression of endothelial cell-specific human SIRT1 (SIRT1-Tg) and
dominant-negative SIRT1 (SIRT1-mut) fed with normal chow and high fat diet to
show that expression of functional SIRT1 in endothelium protects against vascular
dysfunction in diet-induced obese mice. Endothelial-specific overexpression of
SIRT1 improved endothelium-dependent dilation in aortas treated with risk factors
including high glucose, angiotensin II, and lysophosphatidylcholine. Oral
treatment with resveratrol treatment improves endothelial function in high fat
diet fed wild type Ppard-wt but not in PPARδ knockout Ppard-mut mice. Experiments
on isolated arteries also showed that the effect of resveratrol or SIRT1
activator CAY10602 was inhibited by PPARδ antagonist GSK0660. Resveratrol
increased PPARδ transcriptional activity in endothelial cells. Results
demonstrated here indicated that PPARδ contributes to the beneficial effect of
SIRT1 to ameliorate endothelial dysfunction in diabetic and obese mice. These
results help to understand SIRT1-based strategy for treating vascular and
metabolic dysfunction in the context of obesity and insulin resistance.
EOF
To explore the role of nesfatin-1 in regulating male reproductive function during
energy balance variation, we employed an obese mouse model which was first
induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) and followed by interventions of a normal diet
(ND) and/or moderate exercise, and then serum reproductive hormones of male mice,
hypothalamic nucleobindin 2 (NUCB2)/nesfatin-1, inflammatory factors, and
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) levels were tested. Our findings showed
that both serum nesfatin-1, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing
hormone (LH), and testosterone (T) levels and hypothalamic NUCB2/nesfatin-1 and
Gnrh mRNA levels were reduced, whereas, the mRNA and protein levels of
hypothalamic tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, inhibitor
kappa B kinase β (IKKβ), and nuclear factor (NF)-κB were increased in obese male 
mice. Diet, exercise, and diet combined with exercise interventions reversed the 
decreases in serum nesfatin-1, FSH, LH, and T levels; increased hypothalamic
NUCB2/nesfatin-1 and Gnrh mRNA levels; and reduced hypothalamic TNF-α, IL-1β,
IKKβ, and NF-κB levels. These changes were accompanied by reduced adiposity, and 
these effects were more obvious in the diet combined with exercise group.
Overall, our findings suggested that the hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated
with obesity may be induced by reduced hypothalamic NUCB2/nesfatin-1 levels,
which attenuated the stimulatory effect on GnRH directly or indirectly by
suppressing its anti-inflammatory effect in the brain. Diet and/or exercise
interventions were able to alleviate the hypogonadotropic hypogonadism associated
with obesity, potentially by increasing hypothalamic NUCB2/nesfatin-1 levels.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Several studies conducted in developed countries introduced diet and 
physical inactivity as major risk factors for several types of cancers. However, 
the impact of diet and physical inactivity on the risk of breast cancer (BC) is
understudied, and the limited findings are controversial. In addition, no or
limited knowledge is available from the developing world.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This case-control study was performed from November 2014 to
March 2016 on 1010 young women aged 20 to 50 years who were newly diagnosed with 
BC. Data was obtained via a validated questionnaire and the global physical
activity questionnaire (GPAQ2). Also, patients' medical and histopathology
reports were reviewed.
RESULTS: The results of multiple logistic regression suggested that, except for
the common risk factors for BC (older marital age, family history of BC, smoking,
and being a passive smoker), eating red meat (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] >8
portions/week [p/w] vs. 0-2 p/w, 1.15; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-1.28); 
eating fish (aOR >8 p/w vs. 0-2 p/w, 1.55; 95% CI, 1.12-2.76), fruit consumption 
(aOR 0-4 p/w vs. >8 p/w, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.07-3.82), pickle consumption (aOR >8 p/w
vs. 7-8 p/w, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.31-1.70), and intensity of physical activity (aOR
light vs. vigorous, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.47-1.98) were directly associated with a
higher risk of BC in young women.
CONCLUSION: Our study supported the hypothesis that unhealthy dietary habits and 
physical inactivity are risk factors for BC. We found that a healthy diet
containing low fat and high fruits and vegetables with regular exercise are
effective ways to reduce the risk of BC among young women.
EOF
Obesity is recognized as a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Studies have supported that obesity accelerates AD-related pathophysiology and
memory impairment in mouse models of AD. However, the nature of the brain
structure-behaviour relationship mediating this acceleration remains unclear. In 
this manuscript we evaluated the impact of adolescent obesity on the brain
morphology of the triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg) and a non-transgenic
control model of the same background strain (B6129s) using longitudinally
acquired structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). At 8 weeks of age, animals 
were placed on a high-fat diet (HFD) or an ingredient-equivalent control diet
(CD). Structural images were acquired at 8, 16, and 24 weeks. At 25 weeks,
animals underwent the novel object recognition (NOR) task and the Morris water
maze (MWM) to assess short-term non-associative memory and spatial memory,
respectively. All analyses were carried out across four groups: B6129s-CD and
-HFD and 3xTg-CD and -HFD. Neuroanatomical changes in MRI-derived brain
morphology were assessed using volumetric and deformation-based analyses.
HFD-induced obesity during adolescence exacerbated brain volume alterations by
adult life in the 3xTg mouse model in comparison to control-fed mice and mediated
volumetric alterations of select brain regions, such as the hippocampus. Further,
HFD-induced obesity aggravated memory in all mice, lowering certain memory
measures of B6129s control mice to the level of 3xTg mice maintained on a CD.
Moreover, decline in the volumetric trajectories of hippocampal regions for all
mice were associated with the degree of spatial memory impairments on the MWM.
Our results suggest that obesity may interact with the brain changes associated
with AD-related pathology in the 3xTg mouse model to aggravate brain atrophy and 
memory impairments and similarly impair brain structural integrity and memory
capacity of non-transgenic mice. Further insight into this process may have
significant implications in the development of lifestyle interventions for
treatment of AD.
EOF
HIV-infection, certain antiretroviral drug classes, especially protease
inhibitors (PI), and obesity are associated with increased ischaemic heart
disease (IHD) risk. However, the effect of PI-free fixed dose combination (FDC)
antiretroviral therapy (ART) on hearts exposed to ischaemia-reperfusion injury
(I/R) is unknown, particularly in obesity. This is becoming relevant as World
Health Organisation guidelines recommend a FDC ART containing (non-) nucleoside
reverse transcriptase inhibitors (tenofovir (TDF), emtricitabine (FTC) and
efavirenz (EFV)) as first-line HIV treatment. Additionally, obesity rates are
rising in HIV-infected populations, not only in ART-experienced individuals, but 
also at the time of ART initiation, which may further increase the risk of IHD.
Therefore, we investigated the effects of PI-free FDC ART in myocardial
I/R-exposed hearts from obese rats. Obesity was induced in male wistar rats via a
16-week high calorie diet. At week 10, treatment with a FDC ART drug containing
TDF/FTC/EFV was initiated. Biometric and metabolic parameters, as well as
myocardial functional recovery and infract size (IS), and myocardial signalling
proteins following I/R were assessed after 16 weeks. Obese rats presented with
increased body and intraperitoneal fat mass, elevated triglyceride and TBARS
levels, whilst the hearts responded to I/R with impaired functional performance
and increased IS. The FDC ART treatment did not alter biometric and metabolic
parameters in obese rats. In a novel finding, ART protected obese hearts against 
I/R as shown by improved functional performance and smaller IS vs. untreated
obese hearts. Cardioprotection was underscored by increased myocardial
phosphorylated endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and reduced AMP-kinase
levels. In conclusion, these results demonstrate for the first time, that 6-weeks
treatment of obese rats with a FDC ART drug specifically containing TDF/FTC/EFV
conferred cardioprotection against I/R. The FDC ART-induced cardioprotection was 
seemingly unrelated to metabolic changes, but rather due to direct cardiac
mechanisms including the up-regulation of myocardial eNOS.
EOF
The development of obesity related-metabolic disorders is more evident in male in
comparison to female subjects, but the mechanisms are unknown. Several studies
have shown that oxidative stress is involved in the pathophysiology of obesity,
but the majority of them were performed in male animals. The aim of this study
was to evaluate the sex-related differences in the subcutaneous adipose tissue
redox homeostasis and inflammation of rats chronically fed a high fat diet. NADPH
oxidase (NOX), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and
catalase activities were evaluated in the subcutaneous adipose tissue (SC) of
adult male and female rats fed either a standard chow (SCD) or a high-fat diet
(HFD) for 11 weeks. NOX2 and NOX4 mRNA levels, total reduced thiols, as well as
IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6 were also determined. Higher antioxidant enzyme activities
and total reduced thiol levels were detected in SC of control male compared to
female rats. Chronic HFD administration increased NADPH oxidase activity and NOX2
and NOX4 mRNA levels, and decreased SOD and GPx activities only in male animals. 
IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6 levels, as well as Adgre1, CD11b, and CD68 mRNA levels
were also higher in male SC adipose tissue after HFD. In females SC, catalase
activity was higher after HFD feeding. Taken together, our results show that
redox homeostasis and inflammation of SC is sexually dimorphic. Furthermore,
males show higher oxidative stress in SC after 11 weeks of HFD due to both
increased ROS production through NOX2 and NOX4, and decreased ROS detoxification.
EOF
In non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), triglycerides accumulate within the
liver because the rates of fatty acid accrual by uptake from plasma and de novo
synthesis exceed elimination by mitochondrial oxidation and secretion as
VLDL-triglycerides. Thioesterase superfamily member 2 (Them2) is an acyl-CoA
thioesterase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of fatty acyl-CoAs into free fatty
acids plus CoASH. Them2 is highly expressed in the liver, as well as other
oxidative tissues. Mice globally lacking Them2 are resistant to diet-induced
obesity and hepatic steatosis, and exhibit improved glucose homeostasis. These
phenotypes are attributable, at least in part, to roles of Them2 in the
suppression of thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue and insulin signaling in
skeletal muscle. To elucidate the hepatic function of Them2, we created mice with
liver-specific deletion of Them2 (L-Them2-/- ). Whereas L-Them2-/- mice were not 
protected against excess weight gain, hepatic steatosis or glucose intolerance,
they exhibited marked decreases in plasma triglyceride and apolipoprotein B100
concentrations. These were attributable to reduced rates of VLDL secretion owing 
to decreased incorporation of plasma-derived fatty acids into triglycerides. The 
absence of hepatic steatosis in L-Them2-/- mice fed chow was explained by
compensatory increases in rates of fatty acid oxidation and by decreased de novo 
lipogenesis in high fat fed mice. Consistent with a role for Them2 in hepatic
VLDL secretion, THEM2 levels were increased in livers of obese patients with
NAFLD characterized by simple steatosis. Conclusion: Them2 functions in the liver
to direct fatty acids towards triglyceride synthesis for incorporation into VLDL 
particles. When taken together with its functions in brown adipose and muscle,
these findings suggest Them2 as target for the management of NAFLD and
dyslipidemia. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
BACKGROUND: A crucial component of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
pathogenesis is lipid stress, which may contribute to hepatic inflammation and
activation of innate immunity in the liver. However, little is known regarding
how dietary lipids, including fat and cholesterol, may facilitate innate immune
activation in vivo. We hypothesized that dietary fat and cholesterol drive NAFLD 
progression to steatohepatitis and hepatic fibrosis by altering the transcription
and phenotype of hepatic macrophages METHODS: This hypothesis was tested by using
RNA-seq methods to characterize and analyze sort-purified hepatic macrophage
populations that were isolated from mice fed diets with varying amounts of fat
and cholesterol RESULTS: The addition of cholesterol to a high fat diet triggered
hepatic pathology reminiscent of advanced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in
humans characterized by signs of cholesterol dysregulation, generation of
oxidized LDL, increased recruitment of hepatic macrophages, and significant
fibrosis. RNA-seq analyses of hepatic macrophages in this model revealed that
dietary cholesterol induced a tissue repair and regeneration phenotype in Kupffer
cells and recruited infiltrating macrophages to a greater degree than fat.
Furthermore, comparison of diseased Kupffer cells and infiltrating macrophages
revealed that these two macrophage subsets are transcriptionally diverse.
Finally, direct stimulation of murine and human macrophages with oxidized LDL
recapitulated some of the transcriptional changes observed in the RNA-seq study. 
These findings indicate that fat and cholesterol synergize to alter macrophage
phenotype, and they also challenge the dogma that Kupffer cells are purely
pro-inflammatory in NASH CONCLUSION: This comprehensive view of macrophage
populations in NASH indicates novel mechanisms by which cholesterol contribute to
NASH progression and identifies potential therapeutic targets for this common
disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
EOF
This study examines whether the intake of a high-fat diet very early in life
leads to changes in arterial pressure and renal function and evaluates whether
the mechanisms involved in these changes are sex-dependent. Experiments were
performed in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats fed a normal or high-fat diet
from weaning to 4 mo of age. This exposure to a high-fat diet lead to an
angiotensin II-dependent elevation in arterial pressure and to significant
increments in fat abdominal volume and plasma leptin that were similar in both
sexes. In addition, the angiotensin II-induced increment in renal vascular
resistance was greater ( P < 0.05) in male (106 ± 14%) and female (97 ± 15%) rats
fed a high-fat diet than in rats fed a normal-fat diet (51 ± 8%). However, the
high-fat intake during early life induced increments in albuminuria,
interleukin-6, and infiltration of CD3 lymphocytes in the renal parenchyma that
were greater ( P < 0.05) in male than in female rats. Other sex-dependent
differences in response to high-fat intake were that adiponectin levels only
decreased in females (21%, P < 0.05), and renal NF-κB expression only increased
in males (31%, P < 0.05). In summary, the early exposure to a high-fat diet leads
to angiotensin II-dependent arterial pressure elevations and to increments in
abdominal fat and in the renal sensitivity to angiotensin II that are similar in 
both sexes. However, the mechanisms involved in the renal changes associated with
early exposure to a high-fat diet are different in males and females.
EOF
The bidirectional and positive relation between the ingestion of fat and alcohol 
has become the subject of extensive discussion. However, this relation is more
studied in animal models of binge eating with intermittent access of high-fat
diet or in a model of short period of this diet consumption. Here, we developed a
model to elucidate how chronic high-fat diet and its withdrawal influence alcohol
intake (two-bottle choice) and anxiety behavior (marble burying test). In the
first experimental stage, animals were fed on standard (AIN93G) or high sugar and
butter (HSB) diet for 8 weeks. Then, a protocol of free-choice between water and 
a 10% alcohol solution was introduced, and the HSB diet was replaced with AIN93G 
in two experimental groups. The result obtained with this model point out that
the relation among high-fat diet consumption and alcohol intake appears to depend
on the presence or absence of the diet when alcohol intake is evaluated, and that
an imbalance in the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic pathway, observed by the
transcriptional regulation of the dopamine receptors (Drd1/Drd2) and GABAB
receptors subunit (Gabbr1/Gabbr2), can be driving the alcohol intake.
EOF
SCOPE: Obesity has become a major health problem worldwide and is associated with
low-grade chronic inflammation and intestinal dysbiosis. This study is conducted 
to investigate the chemopreventive effects of garcinol, a polyisoprenylated
benzophenone derivative isolated from the fruit rind of Garcinia indica. How
garcinol protects against obesity in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced mice is
delineated and whether its anti-obesity effects are related to gut microbiota has
been determined.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The results show that garcinol reduces HFD-fed mice body
weight gain and relative visceral adipose tissue fat weight in a dose-dependent
manner. Furthermore, garcinol markedly reduces the plasma levels of glutamate
pyruvate transaminase, total cholesterol, and triacylglycerol. The 16S rRNA gene 
sequence data indicate that garcinol not only reverses HFD-induced gut
dysbiosis-as indicated by the decreased Firmicutes-to-Bacteroidetes ratios-but
also controls inflammation by increasing the intestinal commensal bacteria,
Akkermansia. In addition, the AMP-activated protein kinase α signaling pathway
involved in adipocyte adipogenesis is also affected by garcinol.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that
garcinol can prevent HFD-induced obesity and may be used as a novel gut
microbiota modulator to prevent HFD-induced gut dysbiosis and obesity-related
metabolic disorders.
EOF
Previous studies suggested the anti-diabetic effect of mogrosides in type 1
diabetes. To evaluate the potential effect of mogrosides in type 2 diabetes, we
herein investigated the hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects and the underlying
mechanism of mogroside-rich extract (MGE) using a high-fat diet in combination
with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic model. MGE feeding for 5 weeks did not
result in any obvious impact on the body weight and energy intake, but caused a
moderate decrease of organ index in diabetic mice. MGE-supplemented diabetic mice
showed a notable reduction of fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated serum protein
(GSP), serum insulin, homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), 
and serum atherogenic lipid profiles in a dose-dependent manner, whereas
significant increases in the anti-atherogenic lipid profile, insulin sensitivity,
glucose and insulin tolerance capacity with high dose (300 mg kg-1) MGE were
observed (P < 0.01). Besides, hepatocyte polymorphism, lipid accumulation and
steatosis were ameliorated and restored to near normal at the high dose.
Furthermore, hepatic 5'AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling was
dose-dependently activated. Accordingly, the mRNA levels of hepatic gluconeogenic
and lipogenic genes were downregulated and fat oxidation-associated genes were
upregulated. These findings suggest that the hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic
activities of MGE are probably attributed to the attenuation of insulin
resistance and activation of hepatic AMPK signaling.
EOF
Although nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is an important component of the
metabolic syndrome, scavenger receptor CD36 also modulates NASH development. This
study aimed to clarify whether exercise training suppresses CD36 expression in a 
mouse model of NASH. Male C57BL/6 mice were divided into four groups: normal diet
(ND) sedentary, ND exercise, high-fat diet and high-fructose water (HFF)
sedentary, and HFF exercise groups. The exercise groups were trained on a
motorized treadmill at running speeds of 15-20 m/min for 60 min/day, 5 times/week
for 16 weeks. CD36 cell surface expression of hepatic resident macrophages,
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ protein, and mRNA levels in
the liver were increased in HFF sedentary mice but were attenuated in HFF
exercise mice. Hepatic resident macrophages were significantly lower in HFF
exercise mice than in HFF sedentary mice. Our findings indicated that exercise
training reduced macrophage quantity in the liver, and downregulated CD36 and
PPAR-γ expression in liver and macrophages.
EOF
SCOPE: Epigenetic aberrations caused by environmental factors and lifestyle
choices have been associated with the development of a number of pathologies,
including cardiovascular disorders. However, whether obesity-related heart
dysfunction can occur via epigenetic mechanisms is largely undisclosed. The
manifested role of DNA hydroxymethylation in heart pathophysiology prompts an
investigation of its levels/machinery in heart of mice fed with high-fat diet
(HFD) and its possible relation with genes linked to obesity-associated cardiac
remodeling.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Alterations in levels of DNA methylation/hydroxymethylation 
modifications and in expression of Tet family of DNA hydroxylases are observed in
hearts of mice treated with HFD for 8 and 16 weeks. Decreased levels of the Tet
co-substrate α-ketoglutarate are also observed and associate with mitochondrial
mass reduction and augmented oxidative stress. Finally, expression markers of
cardiac remodeling are monitored by RT-qPCR analysis and associate with DNA
hydroxymethylation signature by DNA immunoprecipitation and correlation analyses.
CONCLUSION: Global changes of DNA hydroxymethylation in hearts of HFD-fed mice
are associated with upregulation of the dioxygenase Tet3 and decreased content of
α-ketoglutarate. A relation between Tet genes and markers of cardiac hypertrophic
response is observed and, if further validated, it will provide insights
concerning epigenetics and obesity-related cardiac complications.
EOF
A 42-day experiment was conducted to evaluate the influence of dietary copper
(Cu) concentrations on growth performance, nutrient digestibility, and serum
parameters in broilers aged from 1 to 42 days. Five hundred forty 1-day-old
broilers were randomly assigned into 1 of the following 6 dietary treatments: (1)
control (basal diet without supplemental Cu), (2) 15 mg/kg supplemental Cu
(Cu15), (3) 30 mg/kg supplemental Cu (Cu30), (4) 60 mg/kg supplemental Cu (Cu60),
(5) 120 mg/kg supplemental Cu (Cu120), and (6) 240 mg/kg supplemental Cu (Cu240),
Cu as copper methionine. A 4-day metabolism trial was conducted during the last
week of the experiment feeding. The results showed that dietary Cu
supplementation increased the average daily gain and the average daily feed
intake (P < 0.01). The feed gain ratio, however, was not affected by dietary Cu
(P > 0.10). Additionally, dietary Cu supplementation increased the digestibility 
of fat and energy (P < 0.05). The concentration of serum cholesterol,
triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased with dietary Cu
supplementation (P < 0.05). The activities of serum Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase
(P < 0.05), glutathione peroxidase (P < 0.05), and ceruloplasmin (P = 0.09), on
the contrary, were increased by Cu addition. For immune indexes, dietary Cu
supplementation increased serum IgA and IgM (P < 0.05). In addition, the
activities of serum ALT increased with increasing dietary Cu supplementation
(P < 0.05). In conclusion, our data suggest that Cu supplementation can increase 
fat digestibility and promote growth. Additionally, dietary Cu supplementation
can reduce serum cholesterol and enhance antioxidant capacity in broilers.
EOF
Background: The pathophysiology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
related to unhealthy lifestyles that combine sedentary lifestyle, hypercaloric
diets, excessive saturated fats, refined carbohydrates, and high intake of
fructose as a food additive to various processed products. Both the broader
recognition of the disease and the additional efforts to elucidate the NAFLD
pathogenesis have led to an increase in animal models in recent years. Objective.
This review was performed to provide better understanding of the association
between the NAFLD and animal models.
Methods: The search in the literature occurred before May of 2018 in the PUBMED
database.
Results: Most studies investigating the influence of diet on liver fat content
have been performed using a high-calorie diet that leads to a significant
increase in fat content in the liver.
Conclusion: The findings of this review show that diet is one of the factors that
predisposes to the appearance of NAFLD and that the studies presented a wide
variety of designs.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Ginger, a root vegetable, is known to have antioxidant and
antiobesity effects. Preparation, such as by steaming, can affect the chemical
composition of prepared root vegetables or herbs and can change their functional 
activities. In the present study, we investigated the protective effects of
steamed ginger against oxidative stress and steatosis in C57BL/6J mice fed a
high-fat diet.
MATERIALS/METHODS: The levels of polyphenols and flavonoids in two different
extracts of steamed ginger, i.e., water extract (SGW) and ethanolic extract
(SGE); as well, their antioxidant activities were examined. Forty male C57BL/6J
mice were fed a normal diet (ND, n = 10), high-fat diet (HFD, 60% fat, w/w, n =
10), HFD supplemented with 200 mg/kg of SGE or garcinia (GAR) by weight (SGED or 
GARD, respectively, n = 10) for 12 weeks. Serum chemistry was examined, and the
expressions of genes involved in lipid metabolism were determined in the liver.
Histological analysis was performed to identify lipid accumulations in epididymal
fat pads and liver.
RESULTS: The SGE had higher contents of polyphenols and flavonoids and higher
DPPH and ABTS+ free radical scavenging activities compared to those of SGW.
Treatment with SGE or GAR significantly decreased the HFD-induced weight gain.
Both SGE and GAR significantly reduced the high serum total cholesterol (TC),
triglyceride (TG) and low-density lipoprotein levels induced by HFD. Compared to 
ND, HFD significantly increased hepatic TC and TG levels. SGE or GAR
supplementation significantly decreased the increase of hepatic lipids by HFD.
Interestingly, SGE had a more significant effect in reducing hepatic TC and TG
levels than GAR. Furthermore, hepatic genes involved in lipogenesis and lipolysis
were altered in both the SGED and GARD groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates that steamed ginger supplementation can 
decrease plasma TC and TG and can inhibit liver steatosis by regulating the
expressions of hepatic genes.
EOF
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Gelidium amansii (GA) contains plenty of agars and various
biological substances, which make them a popular functional food to control body 
weight in previous studies. Unlike previous studies focused on agar in GA,
objectives of this study were to investigate the effects of agar-free GA extract 
(AfGAE) on preventive and treatment models by using diets-induced obese (DIO)
C57BL/6J mice.
MATERIALS/METHODS: AfGAE were used to test their effects on the prevention
(Exp-1) and treatment (Exp-2) against obesity after pilot study in DIO mice. The 
weight changes of the body and fat tissues and protein expression related to
lipid metabolism and inflammation as well as plasma lipid profile and insulin
were detected.
RESULTS: Although AfGAE did not prevent long-term DIO, it did increase the levels
of anti-inflammatory cytokine production and lipolysis protein. We further
evaluated various doses of AfGAE in preventive and treatment models. As a result,
our findings suggested that an AfGAE administration as a preventive model might
be a better approach to achieve its anti-inflammatory and lipolysis-promoting
effects in DIO mice.
CONCLUSION: Although future studies to investigate the target materials such as
polyphenols in AfGAE are required, the result suggests that GA without agar might
be a therapeutic tool to improve health conditions related to inflammation.
EOF
The present study aimed to investigate the role of adenylyl cyclase activator in 
preventing diabetic nephropathy in rats. Renal function parameters, renal
hypertrophy, lipid profile, markers of oxidative stress and free radical
scavenging activities were assessed. Histopathology was performed to confirm
Streptozotocin induced renal morphological changes in diabetic rats. Male Wistar 
rats were used in the present study to reduce the effect of estrogen. Rats were
subjected to high fat diet (HFD) for two weeks followed by low dose of
Streptozotocin (STZ) [35 mg/kg, i.p.] to develop experimental diabetic
nephropathy in eight weeks. Two weeks treatment with low dose of Forskolin (10
mg/kg) reduced the level of diabetic nephropathy markers but results observed
were not significant. Whereas, Forskolin intermediate dose (20 mg/kg) and high
dose (30 mg/kg) treated rats significantly attenuated diabetes induced elevated
renal function parameters and endogenous antioxidants enzymatic activities. High 
dose of Forskolin was found to be more effective in attenuating the renal
structural and functional abnormalities. Forskolin prevented renal structural and
functional abnormalities in diabetic rats. Histopathological evaluation revealed 
that Forskolin (20 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg) treated diabetic rats demonstrated reduced
vacuolar degeneration of tubules and glomerulosclerosis. In the present study,
Glibenclamide (0.6 mg/kg) and Atorvastatin (0.5 mg/kg) were used as standard
drugs. Our results demonstrated synergistic effects, when high dose of Forskolin 
was co-administered with standard drugs. In conclusion, treatment with adenylyl
cyclase activator, Forskolin in diabetic rats reduced the elevated serum glucose 
level, biomarkers of renal morphological dysfunction, renal hypertrophy,
dyslipidaemia, oxidative stress and improved renal structure, function and
enhanced level of endogenous antioxidants. Forskolin has a potential to prevent
nephropathy without showing any effect on body weight in diabetic rats.
EOF
Introduction: Paeonol, an active compound isolated from the radix of Cortex
Moutan, has been shown to have anti-atherosclerosis effects by regulating blood
cells' function and protecting vascular cells injury. Besides, emerging evidences
has proven that exosomes might play a pivotal role in intercellular communication
by transmiting proteins and microRNAs from cell to cell. However, the
relationship between monocytes-derived exosomal microRNA-223 and vascular
inflammation injury along with paeonol' effects are still not clear. Objective:
Our study aimed to explain whether paeonol's protective effect on inflammatory
response is related to the regulation of exosomal microRNA-223 in the VECs.
Methods: ApoE-/- mice were fed with high fat diet to replicate the AS model. HE
staining and immunohistochemistry was used to detect inflammatory response of
aorta. The expression of IL-1β and IL-6 were detected by ELISA. Western blot was 
used to detect the expression of STAT3, pSTAT3, ICAM-1 and VCAM-1. qRT-PCR was
used to detect miR-223 expression. Exosomes were extracted from THP-1 cells by
differential centrifugation and observed by transmission electron microscope.
Observation of exosomes uptake into HUVECs was realized by laser microscopy.
miR-223 target gene was detected by double luciferase gene report test. Results: 
In vivo experiments confirmed that paeonol restricted atherosclerosis development
and increased miR-223 expression, inhibited STAT3 pathway in ApoE-/- mice. In
vitro, miR-223 showed robust presence in THP-1 cells and undetectable in HUVECs. 
And we had observed that miR-223 could be internalized from THP-1 cells into
HUVECs taking exosomes as a carrier. Paeonol obviously increased miR-223
expression in co-cultured HUVECs and exosomes in concentration dependent manner, 
compared to LPS group. In addition, paeonol relieved inflammatory secretion,
adhesion and STAT3 expression in HUVECs, which could be inverted after miR-223
inhibitor transfection into THP-1 cells. Conclusion: Paeonol could increase the
expression of miR-223 in THP-1 derived exosomes and in HUVECs after uptake of
exosomes, whereas decrease the expression of STAT3, p-STAT3 in HUVECs. Ultimately
paeonol decreased the expression of IL-1β, IL-6, ICAM-1, VCAM-1 in HUVECs and
alleviated adhesion of THP-1 cells to HUVECs.
EOF
The Mediterranean diet has been shown to improve cardiovascular health. Vegan
diets have demonstrated similar benefits, albeit in fewer studies. In a
comparative pilot study, we compared the effects of a short-term Mediterranean
Diet (MD) and Vegan Diet (VD) on microvascular function and cholesterol levels in
a healthy population. Twenty-four young (aged 18 to 35 years) healthy volunteers 
followed a four-week intervention (MD = 12; VD = 12) ad libitum. Pre and
post-intervention anthropometrics, microvascular function (assessed via LDF and
expressed as raw CVC and %CVC MAX), dietary-analysis data (Calories, Protein,
Carbohydrates, Total Fat, Saturated Fat, Fibre), Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP),
Blood Pressure, Total Cholesterol (TC), High Density Lipoprotein (HDL-C) and
TC:HDL-C were compared. MD participants reduced Total Fat intake (p = 0.05).
Saturated Fat decreased (MD: p = < 0.001; VD: p = 0.004) and Fibre increased (MD:
p = 0.02; VD: p = < 0.001) in both groups. Dietary changes reflected improvements
in plateau raw CVC in the MD group (p = 0.005), and a reduction in TC (p = 0.045)
and weight loss (p = 0.047) in the VD group. The MD led to improvements in
microvascular function; the VD led to reduced TC and weight loss. Although both
diets might offer CVD risk-reduction benefits, evidence for the MD appeared to be
stronger due to changes in vasodilatory ability and NO bioavailability.
EOF
Pistachios contain beneficial substances such as unsaturated fatty acids,
phytosterols, and polyphenols. In the present study, we investigated if pistachio
consumption is able to prevent or to revert hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, hepatic 
steatosis, and adipose tissue morphological alterations caused by high fat diet
(HFD) in the mouse. Moreover, the impact of pistachio intake on the mRNA
expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ), fatty acid
transport proteins (FAT-P), fatty acid synthase (FAS), stearoyl-CoA desaturase
(SCD1), and sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor-1c (SREBP-1c) 
in liver and adipose tissue was also analyzed. No change in body weight, food
intake, and hyperglycemia was observed between mice consuming pistachios (HFD-P) 
and HFD mice. Pistachio intake was able to prevent but not to reverse HFD-induced
hypertriglyceridemia. Cholesterol plasma levels, steatosis grading, body fat
mass, and adipocyte size were significantly lower in HFD-P group compared to HFD 
in both prevention and reversal protocol. Pistachio-diet was able to prevent
HFD-induced overexpression of PPAR-γ, FAS, and SCD1 in the liver and SREBP-1c,
PPAR-γ, and FAT-P in adipose tissue. Similarly, HFD-P significantly ameliorated
the expression levels of FAT-P and SCD1 in the liver and SREBP-1c, FAS, and SCD1 
in adipose tissue of obese mice. The present study shows that pistachio
consumption is able to prevent and to ameliorate obesity-related dysfunctions by 
positively modulating the expression of genes linked to lipid metabolism.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome is characterized by a combination of several metabolic
disorders, including obesity, hyperglycemia, and hyperlipidemia. A simultaneous
occurrence is one of the most crucial features of metabolic syndrome; therefore, 
we selected an animal model in which this would be reflected. We fed C57BL/6N
mice a high-fat diet for 23 weeks to develop metabolic syndrome and examined the 
efficacy of Rubus occidentalis (RO) for hyperglycemia and hypercholesterolemia.
Oral administration of RO for 16 weeks improved hyperglycemia as indicated by
significantly decreased fasting glucose levels and a glucose tolerance test.
Improvements were also observed in hypercholesterolemia, in which significant
decreases in serum total cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein (non-HDL)
cholesterol, apolipoprotein A-1, and apolipoprotein B levels were observed. The
time comparison of major biomarkers, observed at the initiation and termination
of the experimental period, consistently supported the beneficial effects of RO
on each metabolic phenotype. In addition, RO treatment attenuated the excessive
fat accumulation in hepatic and adipose tissue by decreasing the size and number 
of lipid droplets. These results suggested that RO simultaneously exerted
antihyperglycemic and antihyperlipidemic effects in mice with diet-induced
metabolic syndrome.
EOF
Worksite canteens generally are characterized by obesogenic environments, which
offer access to energy-dense foods and sugar-sweetened beverages rather than
nutrient-rich food. This study assessed the nutritional quality of hot lunches
offered in National Health Service (NHS) hospital staff canteens: 35 side dishes 
and 112 meals were purchased from 8 NHS hospital staff canteens. The meals were
analyzed for portion size, energy, protein, total fat, saturated fatty acids
(SFAs), salt, and the sodium to potassium ratio. The vegetarian and meat-based
lunch meals served in the hospital staff canteens tended to be high in energy,
total fat, saturated fatty acids, and salt: 40%, 59% and 67% of meat meals and
34%, 43%, and 80% of vegetarian meals were assigned the red traffic light label
for total fat, salt, and SFAs per portion, respectively. Similar types of meals, 
but served in different hospitals, varied considerably in their nutritional
quality. The consumption of some lunch meals could provide more than 50% of
recommended total fat, SFAs, and salt for both men and women and daily energy for
women. The majority of analyzed lunch meals were characterized by an unfavorable 
nutrient profile, and regular consumption of such meals may increase the risk of 
noncommunicable diseases.
EOF
The aim of this paper is to review current knowledge about the interactions of
energy-dense diets and mineral metabolism in the context of chronic kidney
disease⁻metabolic bone disease (CKD-MBD). Energy dense-diets promote obesity and 
type II diabetes, two well-known causes of CKD. Conversely, these diets may help 
to prevent weight loss, which is associated with increased mortality in advanced 
CKD patients. Recent evidence indicates that, in addition to its nephrotoxic
potential, energy-dense food promotes changes in mineral metabolism that are
clearly detrimental in the context of CKD-MBD, such as phosphorus (P) retention, 
increased concentrations of fibroblast growth factor 23, decreased levels of
renal klotho, and reduction in circulating concentrations of calcitriol.
Moreover, in uremic animals, a high fat diet induces oxidative stress that
potentiates high P-induced vascular calcification, and these extraskeletal
calcifications can be ameliorated by oral supplementation of vitamin E. In
conclusion, although energy-dense foods may have a role in preventing
undernutrition and weight loss in a small section of the CKD population, in
general, they should be discouraged in patients with renal disease, due to their 
impact on P load and oxidative stress.
EOF
Obesity is a major problem in developed countries and a burden on social health
care systems. Several epidemiological studies showed the protective effects of
green tea against obesity-related diseases. Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)
acts as a mediator for the physiological effects of
(-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate, the major constituent of green tea. Here, we
showed that the level of phosphodiesterase 5, a negative regulator of cGMP, was
up-regulated in adipose tissues of high-fat/high-sucrose (HF/HS) diet-fed mice
and that this up-regulation was ameliorated by diallyl disulfide (DADS), the
major organosulfur in garlic. A green tea extract (GT) and DADS in combination
attenuated HF/HS diet-induced adipose increase and triglyceride accumulation in
the liver. In these mechanisms, the combination regimen suppressed the HF/HS
diet-induced up-regulation of fatty acid synthesis-related enzymes including
sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), fatty acid synthase, and
stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1. Moreover, this combination diet up-regulated
thermogenesis-related genes including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor 
(PPAR) gamma coactivator 1 alpha and uncoupling proteins in both white and brown 
adipose tissues. In conclusion, we identified DADS as an enhancer of the
anti-obesity effect of GT accompanied by the suppression of SREBP-1 and
activation of PPAR axis. The combination diet is a novel and easily applicable
approach against obesity-related diseases.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Type 2 diabetes (T2D)-related vascular dysfunction and hemorheological
abnormalities could possibly be amplified by sickle cell trait (SCT). These
alterations could potentially increase the risk of vascular complications in
individuals with combined T2D and SCT. Therefore, this study used a mouse model
to determine whether vascular function and blood rheology were more severely
altered in combined T2D and SCT than in T2D or SCT alone.
METHODS: Townes transgenic mice with or without SCT received a 12-week high fat
high sucrose or standard diet to create models of combined T2D-SCT, T2D, SCT, and
controls. Pressure-induced vasodilation (PIV) and sodium nitroprusside
(SNP)-mediated vasodilation in-vivo, and hemorheological parameters were
measured.
RESULTS: No significant differences in blood viscosity, hematocrit, erythrocyte
deformability, or PIV were observed between the control and T2D mice, or the
control and SCT mice. However, blood viscosity, erythrocyte deformability, and
PIV were significantly altered in the T2D-SCT mice compared to the control mice. 
There were no differences in SNP response between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although neither T2D nor SCT alone had significant effects on blood 
rheology parameters or vascular function, combined T2D-SCT mice had significantly
altered blood rheology and significantly impaired vascular function.
EOF
Obesity-induced inflammation is associated with increased risk for colorectal
cancer (CRC). The role of diet and exercise in modulating increased CRC risk in
obesity and the potential role of altered hematopoiesis as a contributor to these
effects remain unknown. The purpose of this study was to examine how weight loss 
induced during CRC induction with or without exercise alters CRC initiation and
its relationship to altered hematopoiesis. Mice consumed either a control (CON)
or a high-fat diet to induce obesity. All mice were then placed on the control
diet during CRC induction with azoxymethane (AOM). Following AOM injection, mice 
originally on the high-fat diet were randomized into sedentary (HF-SED) or
exercise trained (HF-EX) conditions. At euthanasia, body weight and fat mass were
similar among all three groups ( P < 0.05). Compared with CON and HF-EX, HF-SED
developed increased content of preneoplastic lesions ( P < 0.05), and HF-SED had 
significantly increased markers of colon inflammation compared with CON. Compared
with both CON and HF-EX, HF-SED had decreased content of short-term hematopoietic
stem cells and increased content of common myeloid progenitor cells (both P <
0.05). Similarly, HF-SED had increased bone marrow adiposity compared with CON
and HF-EX ( P < 0.05), and proteomics analysis revealed an increased marker of
bone marrow inflammation in HF-SED compared with CON and HF-EX. Our results
suggest that the early removal of a high-fat diet reduces CRC incidence when
combined with an exercise training intervention. This reduction in risk was
related to lower colon inflammation with anti-inflammatory changes in
hematopoiesis induced by exercise.
EOF
SCOPE: Dietary methionine restriction (MR) promotes multifaceted health benefits.
Moreover, lower rate of protein synthesis by dietary MR is associated with life
span extension. The goal of this work is to explore how dietary MR would affect
protein metabolism in a mouse model of high-fat-diet-induced obesity (DIO).
METHODS AND RESULTS: DIO mice (male C57BL/6) are subjected to dietary MR for
22 weeks. High-throughput sequencing technology, qRT-PCR analysis, and the dual
luciferase reporter assay are performed to verify that MiR-328-3p directly
targets cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) to modulate endogenous H2 S production.
Moreover, indicators of endogenous H2 S, fractional synthesis rate (FSR),
fractional growth rate (FGR), fractional degradation rate (FDR), and protein
retention efficiency (PRE) are analyzed. MR results in an increase in endogenous 
H2 S to relieve oxidative stress and ER stress to improve protein homeostasis and
metabolic efficiency in DIO mice.
CONCLUSION: Results show that dietary MR increases endogenous H2 S production via
miR-328-3p. Furthermore, these results suggest the potential involvement of
endogenous H2 S on the efficiency of protein metabolism in dietary MR.
EOF
Long-term high-fat diet (HFD) in rats triggered cerebral oxidative stress,
reflected by reactive oxygen species accumulation and antioxidant decline in
peripheral and cerebral tissues, together with hippocampal lipid disturbance,
particularly for triglyceride accumulation and sulfatide deficiency. Hippocampal 
formation and cerebral cortex also exhibited pathological changes, characterized 
by neurofibrillary tangle and reduced Nissl bodies. Sulfatides were noted to
protect hippocampal neurons from oxidative damage through the clearance of
β-amyloid protein, with apolipoprotein E transporting and low-density lipoprotein
receptor binding. Delightedly, we found γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) supplement
delivered by rice bran to rats significantly promoted hippocampal sulfatide
synthesis and reversed the HFD-induced sulfatide deficiency and
oxidative-triggered cerebral impairment. Elevated GABA concentration in
hippocampus and the activation of GABA B-type receptors might be the primary
contributors. This study demonstrated the potential of GABA-enriched rice bran as
a novel dietary supplement to enhance a sulfatide-based therapeutic approach for 
neurodegenerative diseases in the early stages.
EOF
Impaired angiogenesis is a hallmark of metabolically dysfunctional adipose tissue
in obesity. However, the underlying mechanisms restricting angiogenesis within
this context remain ill-defined. Here, we demonstrate that induced
endothelial-specific depletion of the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1
(FoxO1) in male mice led to increased vascular density in adipose tissue. Upon
high-fat diet feeding, endothelial cell FoxO1-deficient mice exhibited even
greater vascular remodeling in the visceral adipose depot, which was paralleled
with a healthier adipose tissue expansion, higher glucose tolerance and lower
fasting glycemia concomitant with enhanced lactate levels. Mechanistically, FoxO1
depletion increased endothelial proliferative and glycolytic capacities by
upregulating the expression of glycolytic markers, which may account for the
improvements at the tissue level ultimately impacting whole-body glucose
metabolism. Altogether, these findings reveal the pivotal role of FoxO1 in
controlling endothelial metabolic and angiogenic adaptations in response to
high-fat diet and a contribution of the endothelium to whole-body energy
homeostasis.
EOF
Hunter-gatherer populations are remarkable for their excellent metabolic and
cardiovascular health and thus are often used as models in public health, in an
effort to understand the root, evolutionary causes of non-communicable diseases. 
Here, we review recent work on health, activity, energetics and diet among
hunter-gatherers and other small-scale societies (e.g. subsistence farmers,
horticulturalists and pastoralists), as well as recent fossil and archaeological 
discoveries, to provide a more comprehensive perspective on lifestyle and health 
in these populations. We supplement these analyses with new data from the Hadza, 
a hunter-gatherer population in northern Tanzania. Longevity among small-scale
populations approaches that of industrialized populations, and metabolic and
cardiovascular disease are rare. Obesity prevalence is very low (<5%), and mean
body fat percentage is modest (women: 24-28%, men: 9-18%). Activity levels are
high, exceeding 100 min d-1 of moderate and vigorous physical activity, but daily
energy expenditures are similar to industrialized populations. Diets in
hunter-gatherer and other small-scale societies tend to be less energy dense and 
richer in fibre and micronutrients than modern diets but are not invariably low
carbohydrate as sometimes argued. A more integrative understanding of
hunter-gatherer health and lifestyle, including elements beyond diet and
activity, will improve public health efforts in industrialized populations.
EOF
Smallanthus sonchifolius (yacon), a native plant of South America, was observed
to improve lipid profile in rodents and humans. This study aimed to investigate
the antiobesity properties of yacon roots in a high-fat-diet (HFD) model and the 
underlying mechanisms. A total of 30 Wistar male rats were divided into five
groups (n=6): the standard chow diet (SD) group was fed a SD; the HFD group was
fed a HFD; and the HFD Y340 and HFD Y680 groups were fed a HFD plus yacon flour
(340 and 680 mg FOS/kg b. w./day, respectively). HFD Y340 and HFD Y680 rats
exhibited marked attenuation of weight gain, a decrease in visceral fat pad
weight, a restoration of the serum lipid profile and atherogenic index in a
dose-dependent manner, being the higher dose more effective (p < 0.05). In
addition, we found that HFD Y680 rats showed lower glucose and insulin levels,
improved glucose tolerance, and insulin sensitivity (p < 0.5). A downregulation
of several adipocyte specific-transcription factors, including peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma2 (PPAR-γ2), CCAAT/enhancer binding protein 
a (C/EBP-a) and activating protein (aP2) mRNA levels, was determined in the
visceral adipose tissue of HFD Y680 rats (p < 0.05). An improvement of adipokine 
profile in HFD Y680 rats and decreased serum proinflammatory cytokine levels (p <
0.05) were determined by ELISA. Decreased macrophage infiltration and F4/80 and
MCP-1 expression in the visceral adipose tissue of HFD Y680 rats (p < 0.5),
together with a higher pAkt/Akt expression (p < 0.05) were also observed by
immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. A significant increase in glucagon (Gcg)
and PYY mRNA levels in distal ileum of HFD Y680 rats (p < 0.05) were also
detected. In the second approach, we determined that yacon supplementation
potentiates the effects of the HFD reversion to a standard diet. In conclusion,
yacon showed antiobesity properties by inhibiting adipogenesis and improving the 
visceral adipose tissue function.
EOF
Ruellia tuberosa L. (RTL) exhibits a wide range of phytochemical activities, for 
example, on treatment of diabetes mellitus (DM), in Orient. There is, however,
few study regarding the effect of RTL on glycemic-related homeostasis in type 2
DM (T2DM). We investigated the effect of RTL aqueous and ethanolic extracts on
hypoglycemia in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed plus streptozotocin (STZ)-induced T2DM
rats, and examined the effect of RTL on glucose uptake in tumor necrosis
factor-α-induced insulin-resistant mouse C2C12 myoblasts, a mouse skeletal muscle
cell line. The administration of 100 or 400 mg kg BW-1 day-1 of RTL aqueous or
ethanolic extracts once a day for 4 weeks significantly ameliorated
hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and the insulin resistance (IR) index in
diabetic rats. RTL either aqueous or ethanolic extract at a concentration of
25-800 μg/ml significantly improved glucose uptake in insulin-resistant mouse
C2C12 myoblasts, indicating inhibiting the IR in skeletal muscles. These
evidences suggest that RTL ameliorates hyperglycemia in HFD/STZ-induced T2DM rats
may be attributed to the alleviation of IR in skeletal muscles.
EOF
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) has a broad spectrum of biological activity by
regulating metabolic processes via both the direct activation of the class B
family of G protein-coupled receptors and indirect nonreceptor-mediated pathways.
GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists have significant therapeutic effects on
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and steatohepatitis (NASH) in animal
models. However, clinical studies indicated that GLP-1 treatment had little
effect on hepatic steatosis in some NAFLD patients, suggesting that GLP-1
resistance may occur in these patients. It is well-known that the gut metabolite 
sodium butyrate (NaB) could promote GLP-1 secretion from intestinal L cells.
However, it is unclear whether NaB improves hepatic GLP-1 responsiveness in
NAFLD. In the current study, we showed that the serum GLP-1 levels of NAFLD
patients were similar to those of normal controls, but hepatic GLP-1R expression 
was significantly downregulated in NAFLD patients. Similarly, in the NAFLD mouse 
model, mice fed with a high-fat diet showed reduced hepatic GLP-1R expression,
which was reversed by NaB treatment and accompanied by markedly alleviated liver 
steatosis. In addition, NaB treatment also upregulated the hepatic p-AMPK/p-ACC
and insulin receptor/insulin receptor substrate-1 expression levels. Furthermore,
NaB-enhanced GLP-1R expression in HepG2 cells by inhibiting histone deacetylase-2
independent of GPR43/GPR109a. These results indicate that NaB is able to prevent 
the progression of NAFL to NASH via promoting hepatic GLP-1R expression. NaB is a
GLP-1 sensitizer and represents a potential therapeutic adjuvant to prevent NAFL 
progression to NASH.
EOF
Obesity and diabetes implicate in various health complications and increased
mortality caused by infection. Innate immune system is broadly affected by these 
diseases, leading the patients to an immunosuppressive state. A mechanism that
leads innate immune cells to a less capacity of killing microorganism is the
impaired TLR4 activation. TLR4 recognizes a component of the outer membrane of
Gram-negative bacteria, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and when activated increases
the production of inflammatory substances. Neutrophils are components of the
innate immune system and are the first responders to an invading agent. The
correct activation of TLR4 in these cells is required for the initiation of the
inflammatory process and elimination of the microorganisms. The aim of this study
was to evaluate the influence of type 2 diabetes and obesity in the TLR4 pathway 
in rat neutrophils. Two experimental models were used: Goto-Kakizaki rats and
high-fat-diet induced obese Wistar rats. To evaluate neutrophil response to LPS, 
intratracheal LPS instillation was used. Neutrophils from obese and diabetic
animals exhibited tolerance to LPS, mainly by the impaired production of
cytokines and chemokines and the low content of phospho-NFκB and phospho-IKBα.
Neutrophils from both experimental models had increased cell death, impaired in
vivo migration and myeloperoxidase activity.
EOF
N6-methyldeoxyadenine (6mA), a major type of DNA methylation in bacteria,
represents a part of restriction-modification systems to discriminate host genome
from invader DNA1. With the recent advent of more sensitive detection techniques,
6mA has also been detected in some eukaryotes2-8. However, the physiological
function of this epigenetic mark in eukaryotes remains elusive. Heritable changes
in DNA 5mC methylation have been associated with transgenerational inheritance of
responses to a high-fat diet9, thus raising the exciting possibility that 6mA may
also be transmitted across generations and serve as a carrier of inheritable
information. Using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model, here we report that histone
H3K4me3 and DNA 6mA modifications are required for the transmission of
mitochondrial stress adaptations to progeny. Intriguingly, the global DNA 6mA
level is significantly elevated following mitochondrial perturbation.
N6-methyldeoxyadenine marks mitochondrial stress response genes and promotes
their transcription to alleviate mitochondrial stress in progeny. These findings 
suggest that 6mA is a precisely regulated epigenetic mark that modulates stress
response and signals transgenerational inheritance in C. elegans.
EOF
γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) administration has been shown to increase β-cell mass,
leading to a reversal of type 1 diabetes in mice. Whether GABA has any effect on 
β cells of healthy and prediabetic/glucose-intolerant obese mice remains unknown.
In the present study, we show that oral GABA administration ( ad libitum) to mice
indeed increased pancreatic β-cell mass, which led to a modest enhancement in
insulin secretion and glucose tolerance. However, GABA treatment did not further 
increase insulin-positive islet area in high fat diet-fed mice and was unable to 
prevent or reverse glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. Mechanistically,
whether in vivo or in vitro, GABA treatment increased β-cell proliferation. In
vitro, the effect was shown to be mediated via the GABAA receptor. Single-cell
RNA sequencing analysis revealed that GABA preferentially up-regulated pathways
linked to β-cell proliferation and simultaneously down-regulated those networks
required for other processes, including insulin biosynthesis and metabolism.
Interestingly, single-cell differential expression analysis revealed GABA
treatment gave rise to a distinct subpopulation of β cells with a unique
transcriptional signature, including urocortin 3 ( ucn3), wnt4, and hepacam2.
Taken together, this study provides new mechanistic insight into the
proliferative nature of GABA but suggests that β-cell compensation associated
with prediabetes overlaps with, and negates, its proliferative
effects.-Untereiner, A., Abdo, S., Bhattacharjee, A., Gohil, H., Pourasgari, F., 
Ibeh, N., Lai, M., Batchuluun, B., Wong, A., Khuu, N., Liu, Y., Al Rijjal, D.,
Winegarden, N., Virtanen, C., Orser, B. A., Cabrera, O., Varga, G., Rocheleau,
J., Dai, F. F., Wheeler, M. B. GABA promotes β-cell proliferation, but does not
overcome impaired glucose homeostasis associated with diet-induced obesity.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Chia seed oil is the richest source of plant-based ω-3 fatty acid,
α-linolenic acid, but its potential and mechanisms of action to treat obesity are
unclear. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of chia oil (ChOi)
supplementation on body composition and insulin signaling in skeletal muscles of 
obese mice.
METHODS: Male C57 BL/6 mice (n = 8/group) were fed regular control chow or a
high-fat diet (HFD) for 135 d. Another HFD group additionally received ChOi from 
90 to 135 d.
RESULTS: Consumption of ChOi reduced fat mass accumulation and increased lean
mass as evidenced by nuclear magnetic resonance. Moreover, obese mice treated
with ChOi showed higher tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1,
greater activation of protein kinase B, and increased translocation of glucose
transporter type 4 in skeletal muscle tissue in response to insulin. ChOi
supplementation improved glucose levels and insulin tolerance; decreased serum
insulin, leptin, and triacylglycerols; and increased blood high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol levels. All these effects caused by the use of ChOi
seemed to be independent of the resolution of inflammation because the markers of
inflammation were not altered in animals fed the HFD.
CONCLUSION: The molecular effects observed in muscle tissue together with changes
in body composition may have contributed to the increased glucose tolerance and
to the healthy phenotype presented by obese animals treated with ChOi.
EOF
Dietary recommendations for cheese usually promote low (LOW)- over regular
(REG)-fat versions due to the saturated fat. Conversely, epidemiological evidence
shows that cheese consumption associates with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. To
investigate how cheese influences diabetes-related outcomes, a feeding trial
comparing LOW and REG cheese was conducted in high-fat, lard-based diet (HFD)-fed
insulin-resistant rats followed by evaluation of potential mechanisms. After 4
weeks of HFD, LOW or REG was added at 7 and 10 g/100 g diet, respectively, for
another 8 weeks. Following either an oral glucose or insulin tolerance test to
assess glucoregulation, rats were euthanized and serum was collected for
metabolomic and lipid analyses. Hepatic tissue was used to measure
glucoregulatory enzymes and lipid content. Both LOW and REG improved insulin
sensitivity without effect on oral glucose tolerance, insulin secretion or body
weight. Serum metabolomics identified 33 metabolites of interest, with 21 being
phosphatidylcholines (PCs) or lysophosphatidylcholines (LPCs). HFD rats had
significantly reduced LPC C16:1, C17:0, C18:1, C20:3 and C24:0, and these effects
were normalized by LOW or REG cheese. Fourteen PC species were lowest in the HFD 
group and normalized by cheese feeding. Serum choline was elevated sevenfold in
HFD- but not cheese-fed rats compared with rats fed low-fat diet. Liver
triglyceride was elevated by LOW feeding. In conclusion, inclusion of both LOW
and REG cheeses in the diet of insulin-resistant rats improves in vivo
glucoregulation. This is associated with altered phospholipid metabolism,
including cheese-mediated normalization of species that are decreased by high-fat
feeding.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: It has been well established that ezetimibe blocks
cholesterol absorption to prevent the negative effects of a high-fat diet in
atherosclerosis. However, the exact mechanism is unknown. Here we use a
transgenic zebrafish, which expresses different fluorescent proteins on either
endothelial cells or granulocytes and macrophages, to explore the specific
mechanism of ezetimibe and its role in reducing atherosclerosis-related
hypercholesteremia.
METHODS: Zebrafish larvae were exposed to a control diet, high cholesterol diet
(HCD) or a HCD with ezetimibe treatment. Both the control diet and high
cholesterol diet were mixed with red or green fluorophore labeled cholesteryl
ester to trace lipid distribution. Isobaric tags were used for relative and
absolute quantification to examine protein expression profiles of zebrafish
larvae in the different treatment groups. To knock down Apo A-II and investigate 
the role of Apo A-II in the anti-atherosclerotic function of ezetimibe, we used
morpholinos to target zebrafish Apoa2 mRNA. To confirm ezetimibe regulatory role 
on Apo A-II expression, siRNA against HNF4, PPARα, and SREBP1 were transfected
into HepG2 cells.
RESULTS: The results show that ezetimibe increased the expression of Apo A-II but
failed to reduce vascular lipid accumulation and macrophage recruitment induced
by the HCD diet when Apo A-II was knocked down. Finally, we found that ezetimibe 
increased the expression of Apo A-II through HNF4 and PPARα transcriptional
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicates that ezetimibe may not only prevents
atherosclerosis by inhibiting cholesterol absorption in the intestine, but also
by increasing the expression of Apo A-II in hepatocytes, thereby enhancing
reverse cholesterol transport and removing excess cholesterol from the periphery.
EOF
To explore the effect of high fat diet on proteome in mice stomachs, we
constructed a model in which the mice were fed with high fat diet as the high fat
diet (HFD) group or normal diet as the control (CTRL) group for 110 days. The
stomachs were collected and divided into three regions (forestomach (F), corpus
(C) and antrum (A)) for protein extraction and mass spectrometry analysis. Of all
9 307 identified proteins in two groups, 4 066 proteins (HFD: 3 832, CTRL: 3 654)
were strictly identified by at least one unique peptide and identified twice in
three replicates. Using gene ontology (GO) and interaction network analysis we
analyzed differentially expressed proteins (fold change≥2) in two groups or
between regions. In the whole stomach tissues, proteins up-regulated in HFD group
mainly were associated with protein stabilization and protein transport.
Differentially expressed proteins between regions showed that forestomach was
related to the biological process of keratinization and actin assembly, while
corpus and antrum mainly performed digestive function. Compared with forestomach,
the corpus and antrum were more affected by the diet. Though there was no
significant effect on the basic digestive function of the stomach, proteins that 
were involved in protein transport and lipid metabolism-related biological
processes were significantly highly expressed in HFD group.
EOF
Fatty acid transport protein4 (FATP4) is upregulated in acquired and central
obesity and its polymorphisms are associated with blood lipids and insulin
resistance. Patients with FATP4 mutations and mice with global FATP4 deletion
exhibit skin abnormalities characterized as ischthyosis prematurity syndrome
(IPS). Cumulating data have shown that an absence of FATP4 increases the levels
of cellular triglycerides (TG). However, FATP4 role and consequent lipid and TG
metabolism in the hepatocyte is still elusive. Here, hepatocyte-specific FATP4
deficient (Fatp4L-/-) mice were generated. When fed with chow, these mutant mice 
displayed no phenotypes regarding blood lipids. However when fed
low-fat/high-sugar (HS) or high-fat/high-sugar (HFS) for 12 weeks, Fatp4L-/- mice
showed a significant increase of plasma TG, free fatty acids and glycerol when
compared with diet-fed control mice. Interestingly, Fatp4L-/- mice under HS diet 
had lower body and liver weights and they were not protected from HFS-induced
body weight gain and hepatic steatosis. Male mutant mice were more sensitive to
HFS diet than female mutant mice. Glucose intolerance was observed only in female
Fatp4L-/- mice fed with HS diet. Lipidomics analyses revealed that hepatic
phospholipids were not disturbed in mutant mice under both diets. Thus, hepatic
FATP4 deletion rendered an increase of blood lipids including glycerol indicating
a preferential fatty-acid channeling to TG pools that are specifically available 
for lipolysis. Our results imply a possible risk of hyperlipidemia as a result of
abnormal metabolism in liver in IPS patients with FATP4 mutations who consume
high-sugar diets.
EOF
PURPOSE: Pregabalin is a widely used drug for the management of neuropathic pain.
This study compared the pharmacokinetics of the GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet, a 150-mg
controlled-release formulation of pregabalin taken once daily, with those of a
75-mg immediate-release (IR) capsule formulation of pregabalin taken twice daily 
with a 12-h interval between doses.
METHODS: Two separate studies, single dose and multiple dose, were conducted with
a sequence-randomized, open-label crossover design. In the single-dose study, 30 
participants each received 3 treatments: two 75-mg IR capsules taken 12 h apart, 
each after a high-fat meal (SRF treatment); a single 150-mg GLA5PR GLARS-NF1
tablet taken after a high-fat meal (STF treatment); and a single 150-mg GLAR5PR
GLARS-NF1 tablet taken in an overnight-fasted state (ST treatment). In the
multiple-dose study, 24 participants each received 2 treatments, both of which
occurred over 3 days: one 75-mg IR capsule in the evening after a standardized
meal and a second 75-mg IR capsule the following morning after a standardized
meal, for 3 days (MRF treatment); and a single 150-mg GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet in 
the evening after a standardized meal, for 3 days (MTF treatment). Blood samples 
for pharmacokinetic assessments were collected over the 36 h following drug
administration in each treatment period.
FINDINGS: In the single-dose study, the geometric mean ratios (GMRs) of the Cmax 
and the AUClast values of the GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet to those of the IR capsules
(STF/SRF) were 1.047 (90% CI, 0.971-1.129) and 0.757 (90% CI, 0.694-0.826),
respectively. In the multiple-dose study, the GMRs (MTF/MRF) of the Cmax and the 
AUC values over the dosing interval were 1.277 (90% CI, 1.210-1.348) and 0.974
(90% CI, 0.933-1.017), respectively. The systemic pregabalin exposure from the
GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet was higher in the fed state than in the fasted state;
GMRs (STF/ST): Cmax, 1.458 (90% CI, 1.353-1.573) and AUClast, 1.655 (90% CI,
1.518-1.804).
IMPLICATIONS: The overall pregabalin exposure after multiple administrations of
GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablets was comparable to that after multiple administrations of
the IR capsules. A single administration of the GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet produced 
lower overall pregabalin exposure than that of the same dose administered in 2 IR
capsules taken every 12 h. A high-fat diet significantly increased the
bioavailability of the GLA5PR GLARS-NF1 tablet. ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers:
NCT01638273 and NCT02326987.
EOF
Depression is a highly prevalent disorder which exerts a major economic impact in
all European countries. The brain-gut-microbiota axis has been described as a new
paradigm for advancing understanding and treatment of the disorder. There is now 
over-whelming evidence to support the fact that gut microbes have a major impact 
on central neurochemistry and behaviour, especially stress related disorders such
as depression. Recent studies indicate that patients with depression have a gut
dysbiosis. The reason for this dysbiosis is uncertain. Over recent decades,
dietary patterns in Europe and elsewhere have undergone major compositional
changes, with increased intakes of red meat, high fat foods, and refined sugars. 
Individuals who consume a Mediterranean diet have lower rates of depression and a
recent study suggests that a Mediterranean diet may have antidepressant
properties. Assuming this to be the case, which components of the Mediterranean
diet mediate the effects? Highly levels of polyphenols or polyunsaturated fatty
acids are obvious candidates. We in the MyNewGut consortium recommend that
patients with depression or vulnerability to depression should be encouraged to
enhance a plant-based diet with a high content of grains/fibres and fish.
EOF
BACKGROUND: To investigate the effects of a Chinese herbal medicine
Fufang-Zhenzhu Tiaozhi Capsule (FTZ) on restenosis and elucidate the mechanism of
action.
METHODS: A restenosis model was established by balloon rubbing the endothelium of
the abdominal aorta followed by high fat diet. Rabbits were divided into blank
control group, restenosis group, FTZ group (0.66 mg/kg/day), atorvastatin group
(5 mg/kg/day) and FTZ + atorvastatin group (n = 8). Vascular stenosis was
analyzed by X-ray. Serum levels of chemokines and cytokines interleukin-1 (IL-1),
interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-12 (IL-12), C-reactive
protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), monocyte chemoattractant
protein-1 (MCP-1), and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) were measured
by ELISA. The levels of NF-κB, IκB-α, P-IκBα, IKK-α, and P-IKKα/β from injured
abdominal arteries were detected by Western blotting.
RESULTS: Restenosis was induced successfully via abdominal artery balloon
injuries and high fat diet. Restenosis was significantly decreased in FTZ group
compared with restenosis group (P < 0.05). FTZ group had markedly reduced serum
lipid levels (P < 0.05). In addition, the levels of TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8,
IL-12, ICAM-1 and MCP-1 decreased by FTZ treatment (P < 0.05). The expression of 
NF-κB in the atherosclerotic lesions was significantly attenuated in FTZ group
(P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: FTZ could reduce restenosis via reducing NF-κB activity and
inflammatory factor expression within the atherosclerotic lesion in a rabbit
restenosis model. FTZ may be a new therapeutic agent for restenosis.
EOF
Inflammation triggered by oxidative stress is the main determinant of
atherosclerotic plaque disruption, which is the leading cause of myocardial
infarctions and strokes. Hence, non-invasive mapping of alterations in redox
status in vivo is highly desirable for accurate assessment of plaque inflammatory
activity and vulnerability. Herein, two types of near-infrared fluorescence
probes, specific for glutathione (GSH)/hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) redox couple,
were used to introduce the self-assembly of bovine serum albumin (BSA), forming a
BSA-Cy-Mito nanoprobe for in vivo photoacoustic imaging of redox status. Such
BSA-based self-assemblies on one hand processed good biocompatibility and long
blood circulation for high EPR effect and plaque accumulation, and on the other
hand displayed strong GSH- and H2O2-dependent absorbance at 765 nm and 680 nm,
which enabled simultaneous photoacoustic detection of GSH/H2O2 with high
specificity and sensitivity. Using BSA-Cy-Mito as an in vivo GSH/H2O2 indicator, 
accurate detection of the redox-related inflammatory process was realized both in
oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL)-activated macrophages and high fat
diet-fed apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice. Systemic administration of
BSA-Cy-Mito further enabled differentiation of vulnerable plaques from stable
ones, based on their different redox states. Therefore, this sensitive
redox-responsive PA nanoprobe may be a powerful tool for early identification of 
rupture-prone plaques and help in implementing successful preventative
therapeutic strategies.
EOF
Published research suggests that activation of transient receptor potential
vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1) enhances the expression and deacetylation of
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) to cause browning of
white adipose tissue. Here, we show that TRPV1 activation by capsaicin
significantly prevents high fat diet-induced obesity in mice. This is associated 
with an increase in the expression and deacetylation of PPARγ in the epididymal
fat of these mice. Consistent with the TRPV1 activation in vivo, overexpression
of TRPV1 enhanced the PPARγ and other thermogenic genes in cultured 3T3-L1
preadipocytes. To determine the interaction between TRPV1 and PPARγ signaling, we
analyzed the effect of Troglitazone (Trog; a thiazolidinedione derivative and an 
agonist of PAARγ) treatment on cultured 3T3-L1 cells. Trog enhanced the
expression of TRPV1, PPARγ and thermogenic proteins in undifferentiated 3T3-L1
cells but not in differentiated cells. Acute application of Trog stimulated a
robust Ca2+ influx into 3T3-L1 cells and TRPV1 inhibition by capsazepine
prevented this. More interestingly, Trog or capsaicin treatment caused the
deacetylation of PPARγ in 3T3-L1 cells and inhibition of TRPV1 or Sirtuin 1 -
prevented this. Our data suggest a novel effect of Trog to induce PPARγ
deacetylation by activating TRPV1. This research has a significant implication on
the role of TRPV1 and PPARγ signaling in the browning of white adipose tissue.
EOF
A high-fat diet (HFD) is known to induce metabolic disturbances that may lead to 
cognitive impairment. In the present study, we investigated whether a regular
treadmill exercise program would improve HFD-induced hippocampal-dependent memory
deficits in C57BL/6 mice. Weight gain and hepatic triglyceride levels were
profoundly elevated following administration of a 60% HFD for 23 weeks, and this 
change was attenuated by 23-weeks of treadmill running. The exercise regimen
attenuated impairments in memory function of HFD-fed mice in a water maze test
and recovered HFD-induced anti-neurogenic effects as shown by
immunohistochemistry data with Ki-67 and doublecortin (DCX) antibodies. Moreover,
the treadmill exercise resulted in anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and
neuroprotective effects in the HFD-fed brain. The exercise inhibited HFD-induced 
microglial activation, expression of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis
factor-α and interleukin-1β), and NF-κB activity in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the
hippocampus. In addition, the exercise reduced malondialdehyde levels elevated by
HFD and recovered antioxidant superoxide dismutase and glutathione levels in
hippocampal DG of HFD-mice. The exercise also reduced the number of apoptotic
cells induced by HFD, as shown by TUNEL staining in the DG region. Finally, we
demonstrated that the thioredoxin-1 (TRX-1) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF) levels were recovered by exercise, which was demonstrated to act via
β2-adrenergic receptor enriched in synaptosomes of the DG. Therefore, our data
collectively suggests that regular exercise may be a promising approach to
preventing HFD-induced memory impairments via anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and 
neuroprotective mechanisms in the hippocampal DG region.
EOF
Obesity is a multifactorial disorder with predominantly genetic and/or
environmental causes. Our aim was to delineate effects of genetically inherited
and high-fat diet-induced obesity on fertility and spermatogenesis using two
Wistar rat models: genetically inherited obese (GIO) WNIN/Ob rats and
diet-induced obese (DIO) rats, which received a high-fat diet. The terminal body 
weights were similar in both groups, but there was a significant difference in
metabolic and hormone profiles between the groups. Fertility assessment revealed 
a significant decrease in the litter size due to increased pre- and
postimplantation loss in the DIO group, whereas the rats in the GIO group were
infertile due to lack of libido. Significantly decreased sperm counts were
observed in the GIO group compared with the DIO group. Enumeration of testicular 
cells on the basis of ploidy and cell type-specific expression markers, to study 
the effect of obesity on spermatogenesis, demonstrated that the GIO and DIO
states affected mitosis: spermatogonia and S-phase population were increased.
However, distinctive effects were observed on meiosis and spermiogenesis in both 
the groups. Differential effects of GIO and DIO on fertility and spermatogenesis 
could be due to the significant difference in white adipose tissue accumulation
between the groups and not due to high body weights. The differential effects of 
obesity suggest male obesity-induced infertility observed in humans could be a
combination of genetic and environmental factors.
EOF
Nutritional compounds could be a safe and less expensive treatment for
complications associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS). The aim of
this study was to investigate the mechanism of action and the target tissues of a
pepsin egg white hydrolysate (EWH) which had previously been demonstrated to
improve some obesity-related disorders on a high-fat/high-glucose rat model.
Wistar rats were used and divided into 3 groups: Control group (C),
High-fat/high-glucose diet (MS) and high-fat/high-glucose diet + EWH (MSH). The
rats were fed for 20 weeks and the EWH was administered from the 9th week. At the
end of the study, white adipose tissue (WAT), brown adipose tissue (BAT) and
muscle samples were collected for RT-qPCR analyses and immunohistochemistry. Our 
results showed a gene expression enhancement (2-fold basal level) in BAT of genes
related to thermogenesis and mitochondrial dynamics. Mitochondrial DNA
quantification and immunohistochemistry results also showed an increase of the
mitochondrial content in this tissue. In conclusion, our results show the
potential metabolic effect of this pepsin EWH by enhancing mitochondrial
proliferation and gene expression related to thermogenesis in BAT. The EWH could 
be used as a functional food ingredient which is able to increase energy
expenditure and counteract obesity-related MetS in a chronically obese society.
EOF
The effects of dietary supplementation with aqueous Hovenia dulcis Thunb. extract
(HDE) (20 weeks) on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
and dyslipidemia were evaluated in mice. Supplementation with 200 and 800 mg/kg
feed HDE (HDE200 and HDE800, respectively) resulted in no significant difference 
in growth in the HFD-fed groups. The triglyceride (TG) levels and free fatty
acids were significantly decreased, whereas high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
was increased in the HDE800 group (P < .05). The hepatic intracellular TGs were
significantly decreased in the HDE-fed groups and lipogenic enzymes (acetyl CoA
carboxylase, fatty acid synthase, stearoyl CoA desaturase, and diacylglycerol
transferase) in the liver were significantly downregulated by HDE supplementation
(P < .05). The diminished serum antioxidant enzyme activities in the HFD group
were effectively restored by HDE supplementation, which also contributed to the
attenuation of hyperlipidemia.
EOF
Optimizing milk production efficiency implies diets allowing low methane (CH4)
emissions and high dairy performance. We hypothesize that nature of energy
(starch v. lipids) and lipid supplement types (monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) 
v. polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) mitigate CH4 emissions and can induce low
milk fat content via different pathways. The main objective of this experiment
was to study the effects of starch-rich or lipid-supplemented diets that induce
milk fat depression (MFD) on rumen biohydrogenation (RBH) of unsaturated fatty
acids (FA) and enteric CH4 emissions in dairy cows. Four multiparous lactating
Holstein cows (days in milk=61±11 days) were used in a 4×4 Latin square design
with four periods of 28 days. Four dietary treatments, three of which are likely 
to induce MFD, were based (dry matter basis) on 56% maize silage, 4% hay and 40% 
concentrates rich in: (1) saturated fatty acid (SFA) from Ca salts of palm oil
(PALM); (2) starch from maize grain and wheat (MFD-Starch); (3) MUFA (cis-9
C18:1) from extruded rapeseeds (MFD-RS); and (4) PUFA (C18:2n-6) from extruded
sunflower seeds (MFD-SF). Intake and milk production were measured daily. Milk
composition and FA profile, CH4 emissions and total-tract digestibility were
measured simultaneously when animals were in open-circuit respiration chambers.
Fermentation parameters were analysed from rumen fluid samples taken before
feeding. Dry matter intake, milk production, fat and protein contents, and CH4
emissions were similar among the four diets. We observed a higher milk SFA
concentration with PALM and MFD-Starch, and lower milk MUFA and trans-10 C18:1
concentrations in comparison to MFD-RS and MFD-SF diets, while trans-11 C18:1
remained unchanged among diets. Milk total trans FA concentration was greater for
MFD-SF than for PALM and MFD-Starch, with the value for MFD-RS being
intermediate. Milk C18:3n-3 content was higher for MFD-RS than MFD-SF. The MFD
seems more severe with MFD-SF and MFD-RS than PALM and MFD-Starch diets, because 
of a decrease in milk SFA concentration and a stronger shift from trans-11 C18:1 
to trans-10 C18:1 in milk. The MFD-SF diet increased milk trans FA (+60%),
trans-10 C18:1 (+31%), trans-10,cis-12 CLA (+27%) and PUFA (+36%) concentrations 
more than MFD-RS, which explains the numerically lowest milk fat yield and
indicates that RBH pathways of PUFA differ between these two diets. Maize
silage-based diets rich in starch or different unsaturated FA induced MFD with
changes in milk FA profiles, but did not modify CH4 emissions.
EOF
While many studies have characterized the inflammatory disposition of adipose
tissue (AT) during obesity, far fewer have dissected how such inflammation
resolves during the process of physiological weight loss. In addition, new immune
cells, such as the eosinophil, have been discovered as part of the AT immune cell
repertoire. We have therefore characterized how AT eosinophils, associated
eosinophilic inflammation, and remodeling processes, fluctuate during a dietary
intervention in obese mice. Similar to previous reports, we found that obesity
induced by high-fat diet feeding reduced the AT eosinophil content. However, upon
switching obese mice to a low fat diet, AT eosinophils were restored to lean
levels as mice reached the body weight of controls. The rise in AT eosinophils
during dietary weight loss was accompanied by reduced macrophage content and
inflammatory expression, upregulated tissue remodeling factors, and a more
uniformly distributed AT vascular network. Additionally, we show that eosinophils
of another metabolically relevant tissue, the liver, did not oscillate with
either dietary weight gain or weight loss. This study shows that eosinophil
content is differentially regulated among tissues during the onset and resolution
of obesity. Furthermore, AT eosinophils correlated with AT remodeling processes
during weight loss and thus may play a role in reestablishing AT homeostasis.
EOF
Excessive phosphate intake has been positively associated with renal and vascular
dysfunction, conversely negatively associated with body fat accumulation. We
investigated the effect of a high-phosphate diet on the expression of lipid
metabolic genes in white adipose tissue and liver. Male 8-week-old Sprague-Dawley
rats were fed a control diet containing 0.6% phosphate or a high-phosphate diet
containing 1.5% phosphate for 4 weeks. In comparison to the control group, the HP
group showed a significantly lower body fat mass and fasting plasma insulin level
alongside decreased lipogenic and increased lipolytic gene expression in visceral
fat. Additionally, the expression of genes involved in hepatic lipogenesis,
hepatic glycogenesis, and triglyceride accumulation decreased in the
high-phosphate group. Exogenous phosphate, parathyroid hormone, and fibroblast
growth factor 23 did not directly affect the expression of lipolytic or lipogenic
genes in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and HepG2 hepatocytes. Thus, the high-phosphate diet
suppressed the activity of white adipose tissue by increasing lipolytic gene
expression and decreasing lipogenic gene expression. These effects could have
been caused by the lowered fasting plasma insulin level that occurred in response
to the high-phosphate diet, but were not directly caused by the increases in
plasma phosphate or phosphaturic hormones.
EOF
The beneficial effects of a Mediterranean diet on human health and, in
particular, on lowering risk of cardiovascular disease, has been mainly
attributed to its high content to extra virgin olive oil (EVOO). While its main
fatty acid, oleic acid, is considered important to these effects, EVOO has other 
biological properties that depend on, or are potentiated by other minor
components of this oil. Initially, the mechanisms considered as possible causes
of this cardioprotective effect of EVOO were based on the incidence on the
so-called traditional risk factors (especially lipids and blood pressure).
However, the high relative reduction in the prevalence of cardiovascular
morbidity and mortality were not proportional to the limited findings about
regulation of those traditional risk factors. In addition to several studies
confirming the above effects, current research on beneficial effect of EVOO, and 
in particular in conjunction with Mediterranean style diets, is being focused on 
defining its effects on newer cardiovascular risk factors, such as inflammation, 
oxidative stress, coagulation, platelet aggregation, fibrinolysis, endothelial
function or lipids or on the modulation of the conditions which predispose people
to cardiovascular events, such as obesity, metabolic syndrome or type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. In the current review, we will mainly focus on reviewing the current
evidence about the effects that EVOO exerts on alternative factors, including
postprandial lipemia or coagulation, among others, discussing the underlying
mechanism by which it exerts its effect, as well as providing a short review on
future directions.
EOF
Owing to changes in lifestyle, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
becoming a common form of chronic liver injury. NAFLD comprises a wide variety of
disease stages, from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, which is a
risk factor for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Because animal
models for NAFLD are needed to investigate the precise pathogenesis, we aimed to 
establish a new mouse model employing mice deficient for apoptosis inhibitor of
macrophage (AIM-/-), which exhibit accelerated lipid storage in the liver and
high susceptibility to developing HCC in response to a high-fat diet (HFD).
AIM-/- mice were fed the D09100301 diet, which contains 40 kcal% fat (trans fat
30 kcal%), high cholesterol (2%), and 40 kcal% carbohydrates (20 kcal% fructose),
and then features of obesity and NAFLD including steatosis, inflammation,
fibrosis, and HCC development were analyzed. Although a comparable grade of liver
steatosis was promoted in AIM-/- mice by the D09100301 diet and the standard HFD 
(60 kcal% largely lard fat), significantly less lipid storage in visceral fat was
observed when the mice were fed the D09100301 diet. Accelerated liver
inflammation was promoted by the D09100301 diet compared with the HFD, but
interestingly, HCC development was decreased in mice fed the D09100301 diet. Our 
findings suggest that AIM-/- mice fed the D09100301 diet exhibited a phenotype
that resembled nonobese NAFLD patients and thus could be an appropriate tool to
study the pathophysiology by which obesity increases the risk of HCC.
EOF
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents a heterogeneous group of diseases 
characterized by uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells in the body.
CRC vary on the basis of both the biologic features of the disease and its
associated lifestyle characteristics. The risk of CRC increases with several
modifiable factors including obesity, physical inactivity, a diet high in red or 
processed meat, heavy alcohol consumption, and possibly inadequate intake of
fruits and vegetables. We aimed to establish a baseline data for dietary and
lifestyle characteristics of Omani adults diagnosed with CRC. Methods: A Case
control study conducted at Sultan Qaboos University Hospital, a referral hospital
for CRC patients in Oman, and included 279 subjects (109 diagnosed CRC cases and 
170 matched controls). All study subjects were recruited on volunteer basis and
personally interviewed for preset questions related to sociodemographic data,
anthropometric assessment, dietary intake and physical activity. Results: There
was no significant difference between cases and controls regarding smoking,
alcohol intake, physical activity and dietary fiber intake. However the enrolled 
cases were more overweight (OR =3.27. 95% CI: 1.91, 7.27), and, had a higher
caloric (p =0.001) and macronutrient intake (carbohydrate: p = 0.001; protein: p 
= 0.017; saturated fat: P = 0.034) than the controls. In addition, the dietary
pattern of the cases was characterized by a trend towards low vegetables and
fruits intake. Conclusion: CRC maybe prevented through dietary management of high
risk groups. This primary prevention approach will ultimately reduce the burden
of CRC in Oman.
EOF
Obesity is a growing health crisis of pandemic proportions. Numerous animal and
human studies have confirmed that obesity and related metabolic abnormalities,
such as insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease, may be programmed during
development by adverse maternal nutrition. We previously documented that
offspring of female mice who were protein-restricted during pregnancy alone had
no alterations to their body weights, but did display a considerable reduction in
food intake, a finding which was linked to reduced expression levels of appetite 
regulatory genes in the hypothalamus. Whether such observations were accompanied 
by changes in metabolic and phenotypic parameters remained to be determined.
Female pregnant MF-1 mice were fed, exclusively during the pregnancy period, a
normal protein diet containing 18% casein (C) or an isocaloric protein-restricted
diet containing 9% casein (PR). From birth, the lactating dams were fed a normal 
protein diet. At weaning, offspring were fed either the standard chow which
contain 7% kcal fat (C) or high-fat diet (HF, 45% kcal fat). This yielded 4
experimental groups denoted by maternal diet/offspring diet: C/C, C/HF, PR/C,
PR/HF. Our results showed that offspring adiposity was significantly increased in
HF-fed offspring, and was not affected by the 50% reduction in protein content of
the maternal diet fed during pregnancy. Similarly, blood glucose levels were
higher in HF-fed offspring, regardless of protein content of the maternal diet.
Systolic blood pressure, on the other hand, was significantly increased in both
male and female offspring of dams fed the PR diet, and this was exacerbated by a 
postweaning HF diet. Our results show that maternal protein restriction leads to 
elevations in systolic blood pressure, which is exacerbated by a postweaning
HF-diet. Our present findings suggest that, while changes in offspring adiposity 
brought about by exposure to maternal protein restriction during pregnancy may be
restored by adequate maternal protein content during lactation, the same may not 
be true for systolic blood pressure, which was similarly impaired, regardless of 
the timing of maternal low-protein exposure.
EOF
Restructuring pork (RP) by adding new functional ingredients, like Chia oil (one 
of the richest natural source of α-linolenic acid) or hydroxytyrosol (HxT)
(potent antioxidant), both with hypolipidemic activities, is one of the
strategies that may help to reduce the potential negative effects of high meat
products consumption. The aim of this study was to evaluate the Chia oil- or
HxT-enriched-RP effect on the lipoprotein profile of aged rats fed high-fat,
high-energy, and cholesterol-enriched diets. RP samples were prepared by mixing
lean pork and lard with or without Chia oil (152.2 g/kg fresh matter) or HxT (3.6
g/kg fresh matter). Diets were prepared by mixing a semisynthetic diet with
freeze-dried RP. Groups of 1-year male Wistar rats were fed the following
experimental diets for 8 weeks: C, control-RP diet; HC, cholesterol-enriched-RP
diet; and Chia oil-RP (CHIA) and HxT, Chia oil- or hydroxytyrosol-RP,
cholesterol-enriched diet. Plasma lipid, lipoprotein profile, SREBP-1c protein,
and low-density lipoproteins (LDL) receptor gene (Ldlr) expressions were
evaluated. Compared to C diet, the HC diet increased plasma cholesterol,
triglycerides, free fatty acids, total lipids, and SREBP-1c expression, but
reduced Ldlr expression and significantly modified the lipoprotein profile,
giving rise to the presence of high levels of atherogenic cholesterol-enriched
very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) particles. Compared to the HC diet, the HxT 
diet did not produce significant changes in feed intake but it reduced the body
weight. Chia oil and HxT partially arrested the negative effects of the high-fat,
high-energy, and cholesterol-enriched meat-based diets on lipemia and
lipoproteinemia, mostly by reducing the amount of cholesterol content in VLDL
(60% and 74% less in CHIA and HxT vs. HC, respectively) and the VLDL total mass
(59% and 63% less in CHIA and HxT vs. HC, respectively). Free fatty acids (FFA)
significantly correlated with adipose tissue weight and VLDL total mass (both p <
0.05), and plasma triglycerides, phospholipids, total lipids, and SREBP-1c (all p
< 0.001), suggesting the important role of FFA in lipoprotein metabolism. Results
support the recommendation to include these ingredients in pork products
addressed to reduce the presence of increased atherogenic particles in aged
people at CVD risk consuming large amounts of pork.
EOF
Olfactory receptors are G protein-coupled receptors that serve to detect odorants
in the nose. Additionally, these receptors are expressed in other tissues, where 
they have functions outside the canonical smell response. Olfactory receptor 1393
(Olfr1393) was recently identified as a novel regulator of Na+-glucose
cotransporter 1 (Sglt1) localization in the renal proximal tubule. Glucose
reabsorption in the proximal tubule (via Sglt1 and Sglt2) has emerged as an
important contributor to the development of diabetes. Inhibition of Sglt2 is
accepted as a viable therapeutic treatment option for patients with type 2
diabetes and has been shown to delay development of diabetic kidney disease. We
hypothesized that Olfr1393 may contribute to the progression of type 2 diabetes, 
particularly the development of hyperfiltration, which has been linked to
increased Na+ reabsorption in the proximal tubule via the Sglts. To test this
hypothesis, Olfr1393 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were challenged with a
high-fat diet to induce early-stage type 2 diabetes. After 16 wk on the high-fat 
diet, fasting blood glucose values were increased and glucose tolerance was
impaired in the male WT mice. Both of these effects were significantly blunted in
the male KO mice. In addition, male and female WT mice developed diabetes-induced
hyperfiltration, which was attenuated in the Olfr1393 KO mice and corresponded
with a reduction in luminal expression of Sglt2. Collectively, these data
indicate that renal Olfr1393 can contribute to the progression of type 2
diabetes, likely as a regulator of Na+-glucose cotransport in the proximal
tubule.
EOF
AIMS: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of
chronic liver diseases. However, there are no approved pharmacotherapies for the 
treatment of NAFLD other than managing life style and controlling diets.
Extensive studies have demonstrated that multiple mechanisms are involved in free
fatty acid (FFA)- and high fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic injury, including
mitochondrial dysfunction, activation of oxidative stress and endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) stress, and lysosome dysfunction. A previous study reported that
Isosteviol (ISV), a derivative of stevioside, prevents HFD-induced hepatic
injury. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.
RESULTS: In this study, we examined the potential cellular/molecular mechanisms
underlying ISV-mediated protective effect against FFA-/HFD-induced hepatic
lipotoxicity by using both in vitro primary rat hepatocytes and the in vivo rat
NAFLD model. The results indicated that ISV inhibits FFA-/HFD-induced hepatic
injury via reducing oxidative and ER stress. Specifically, ISV inhibited the
expression, activation, and mitochondrial translocation of
Src-homology-2-domain-containing transforming protein 1 (p66Shc), an adapter
protein that mediates oxidative stress-induced injury and is a substrate of
protein kinase C-β (PKC-β), via inhibition of PKC-β activity. However, ISV had no
effect on the expression and activity of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase and 
serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A, isomerase and phosphorylase of p66Shc.
In addition, ISV also inhibited FFA-induced ER stress and decreased
ER-mitochondrial interaction. Innovation and Conclusion: We first identified that
ISV prevents FFA-/HFD-induced hepatic injury through modulating
PKC-β/p66Shc/oxidative and ER stress pathways. ISV represents a promising
therapeutic agent for NAFLD in the future.
EOF
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly common and
potentially serious condition, which has emerged with the obesity epidemic. This 
disease can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer. Associated
comorbidities, such as cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes, are common.
Obesity is the key risk factor and diet appears to be a critical factor in the
pathogenesis of NAFLD. We reviewed studies undertaken on human subjects
investigating which dietary components initiate excess hepatic triglyceride
deposition. Most experimental diets used high-calorie excesses, or extreme
proportions of fat or carbohydrate, not typical of current dietary patterns.
Hypercaloric diets, where the additional calories were predominantly either fat
or carbohydrates, increased intrahepatocellular lipids. The type of fat appeared 
important, with diets high in saturated fatty acids favoring hepatic fat
accumulation which was substantially lower with polyunsaturated fatty acids. The 
effect of dietary fructose on markers of NAFLD did not appear to be worse than
that of glucose. The initiation of excess hepatic triglycerides is likely to be a
complex interaction of energy and nutrients with more than one dietary factor
involved. It was not possible to disentangle the hepatic effects of excess energy
from that of different macronutrient distributions in current literature. Further
investigation is needed to determine the type of diet that is likely to lead to
the development of NAFLD. A better understanding of the contribution of diet to
pathogenesis of NAFLD would better inform prevention strategies.
EOF
Obesity is generally caused by quantitative changes in adipocyte differentiation 
and fat metabolism. Only a few studies have been determined the effect of red
beans extract on obesity and plasma cholesterol concentration. We have been
studied the functional activities of red-bean extracts including anti-oxidative
effect against DNA and cell damages. Histological study including micro CT
analysis showed that the accumulation of fat in hepatocytes and intestines was
significantly decreased in red bean extract treated group. In addition, plasma
cholesterol and triglyceride levels were decreased in blood samples. In addition,
it was confirmed that the red bean extract inhibited the expression of PPARγ,
Fabp4 and RETN genes, which regulate total adipocyte differentiation and lipid
metabolism. Red bean extract inhibits the expressions of transcription factors
associated with adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner, thereby
inhibiting fat accumulation and decreasing blood lipid levels in obese mice
induced by high fat diet.
EOF
Chrysanthemum zawadskii (CZ) is a perennial herb belonging to the Asteraceae
family. CZ is used medicinally to treat inflammatory and uterine diseases in
Asia. CZ was extracted with 50% ethanol and CZ extract (CZE; at 125, 250, and
500 mg/kg body weight) was administered orally every day for 5 or 6 weeks to
investigate the anti-diabetic effects in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced rats and
STZ + high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. CZE significantly decreased fasting blood
glucose levels in STZ- and STZ + HFD-induced diabetic models. In addition,
glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were improved in the STZ + HFD + CZE
group by increasing insulin levels and decreasing hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels
in serum. Furthermore, CZE supplements decreased components of the serum lipid
profile such as triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol levels. These results suggest that CZE may be a potential candidate
for controlling hyperglycemia.
EOF
In recent years, chronic overnutrition, such as consumption of a high-fat diet
(HFD), has been increasingly viewed as a significant modifiable risk factor for
diseases such as diabetes and certain types of cancer. However, the mechanisms by
which HFDs exert adverse effects on human health remains poorly understood. Here,
this paper will review the recent scientific literature about HFD-induced
inflammation and subsequent development of diseases and cancer, with an emphasis 
on mechanisms involved. Given the expanding global epidemic of excessive HFD
intake, understanding the impacts of a HFD on these medical conditions, gaining
great insights into possible underlying mechanisms, and developing effective
therapeutic strategies are of great importance.
EOF
Background: Accumulating evidence shows that high fat diet is closely associated 
with inflammatory bowel disease. However, the effects and underlying mechanisms
of maternal high fat diet (MHFD) on the susceptibility of offspring to colitis in
adulthood lacks confirmation. Methods: C57BL/6 pregnant mice were given either a 
high fat (60 E% fat, MHFD group) or control diet [10 E% fat, maternal control
diet (MCD) group] during gestation and lactation. The intestinal development,
mucosal barrier function, microbiota, and mucosal inflammation of 3-week old
offspring were assessed. After weaning all mice were fed a control diet until 8
weeks of age when the microbiota was analyzed. Offspring were also treated with
2% DSS solution for 5 days and the severity of colitis was assessed. Results: The
offspring in MHFD group were significantly heavier than those in MCD group only
at 2-4 weeks of age, while no differences were found in the body weight between
two groups at other measured time points. Compared with MCD group, MHFD
significantly inhibited intestinal development and disrupted barrier function in 
3-week old offspring. Although H&E staining showed no obvious microscopic
inflammation in both groups of 3-week old offspring, increased production of
inflammatory cytokines indicated low-grade inflammation was induced in MHFD
group. Moreover, fecal analysis of the 3-week old offspring indicated that the
microbiota compositions and diversity were significantly changed in MHFD group.
Interestingly after 5 weeks consumption of control diet in both groups, the
microbiota composition of offspring in MHFD group was still different from that
in MCD group, although the bacterial diversity was partly recovered at 8 weeks of
age. Finally, after DSS treatment in 8-week old offspring, MHFD significantly
exacerbated the severity of colitis and increased the production of
proinflammatory cytokine. Conclusions: Our data reveal that MHFD in early life
can inhibit intestinal development, induce dysbiosis and low-grade inflammation
and lead to the disruption of intestinal mucosal barrier in offspring, and
enhance DSS-induced colitis in adulthood.
EOF
Hepatic macrophages play an essential role in the granulomatous response to
infection with the parasitic helminth Schistosoma mansoni, but the
transcriptional changes that underlie this effect are poorly understood. To
explore this, we sorted the two previously recognized hepatic macrophage
populations (perivascular and Kupffer cells) from naïve and S. mansoni-infected
male mice and performed microarray analysis as part of the Immunological Genome
Project. The two hepatic macrophage populations exhibited remarkably different
genomic profiles. However, this diversity was substantially reduced following
infection with S. mansoni, and in fact, both populations demonstrated increases
in transcripts of the monocyte lineage, suggesting that both populations may be
replenished by monocytes following infection. Pathway analysis showed a profound 
alteration in global metabolic pathways, including changes to phospholipid and
cholesterol metabolism, as well as amino acid biosynthesis and glucagon
signaling. These changes suggest a possible mechanism for the previously reported
athero-protective effects of S. mansoni infection. Indeed, we find that male ApoE
null mice fed a high-fat diet in combination with S. mansoni infection have
reduced plaque area and increased glucose tolerance as compared to control mice. 
Transcript analysis of infected and control high-fat diet fed ApoE-/- mice
confirm that ApoC1, Psat1, and Gys1 are all altered by infection, suggesting that
altered hepatic macrophage metabolism is associated with S. mansoni- induced
protection from hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, and glucose intolerance. These
results suggest a previously unknown and unreported role of hepatic macrophages
in the modulation of whole body lipid and glucose metabolism during infection and
provide a template for examining the role of immunomodulation on the long-term
metabolism of the host.
EOF
Vanillin, a simple phenolic compound, exists marginally in some plants and can be
produced by microbes. This study uses high-fat-diet (HFD) induced obese mice to
study the effect of vanillin on obesity and obtain positive results. First, both 
body and adipose tissue weight are reduced. Second, the blood properties
signaling certain disorders such as ALT, LDH, glucose, cholesterol, LDL-C, TG and
HDL-C are ameliorated and both insulin sensitivity, and glucose tolerance are
improved. Third, vanillin reduced elevated levels of inflammatory factors
including LPS, IL-6, and TNF-α in plasma and liver tissue resulting from obesity.
Finally, the production of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) is enhanced.
Additionally, study results demonstrate that vanillin significantly alleviates
obesity-related gut microbiota (GM) disorders including the decrease of alpha-
and beta-diversity. Furthermore, vanillin reduces the abundance of Firmicutes
phylum, increases the richness of Bacteroidetes and Verrucomicrobiota phyla, and 
inhibits the expansion of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-producing bacteria
Bilophila genus and the H2S-producing bacteria Desulfovibrio genus.
EOF
AIM: To compare combined 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG)-positron-emission
tomography (PET) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) for the diagnosis
and therapy monitoring of cardiac sarcoidosis (CS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighty patients with sarcoidosis and a suspicion of CS who
underwent PET and CMR were included retrospectively. PET was undertaken after a
low-carbohydrate-high-fat diet in all patients using a combined 16-section
PET/computed tomography (CT) camera. PET was considered positive (PET+) in cases 
of focal or multifocal FDG uptake. CMR was considered positive (CMR+) in cases of
subepicardial late gadolinium enhancement (LGE). A subgroup of 50 patients
(50/80) was monitored during therapy and classified as responders or
non-responders.
RESULTS: Eighty-two percent of patients with PET+ (9/11) also had CMR+ imaging,
with good spatial agreement (kappa=0,79; 95% confidence interval [CI]:
0.65-0.94). Twenty-seven percent (22/80) had residual physiological FDG uptake,
with a standardised uptake value (SUV) not significantly different compared to
the SUV from pathological uptake (6.4 versus 6 respectively, p=0,92). The
clinical response was more frequent in patients with baseline PET+ compared to
baseline PET- (80% versus 45%, p=0.07). PET findings improved in all cases under 
treatment (7/7), whereas LGE improved in only 33% of patients (3/9).
CONCLUSION: Due to high risk of false-positive or undetermined findings, PET
might be performed as a second-line study in cases of LGE, to assess inflammatory
load. In addition, PET seems suitable to predict and assess response under
therapy.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most frequent birth defect
worldwide. The number of adult patients with CHD, now referred to as ACHD, is
increasing with improved surgical and treatment interventions. However the
mechanisms whereby ACHD predisposes patients to heart dysfunction are still
unclear. ACHD is strongly associated with metabolic syndrome, but how ACHD
interacts with poor modern lifestyle choices and other comorbidities, such as
hypertension, obesity, and diabetes, is mostly unknown.
METHODS: We used a newly characterized mouse genetic model of ACHD to investigate
the consequences and the mechanisms associated with combined obesity and ACHD
predisposition. Metformin intervention was used to further evaluate potential
therapeutic amelioration of cardiac dysfunction in this model.
RESULTS: ACHD mice placed under metabolic stress (high fat diet) displayed
decreased left ventricular ejection fraction. Comprehensive physiological,
biochemical, and molecular analysis showed that ACHD hearts exhibited early
changes in energy metabolism with increased glucose dependence as main cardiac
energy source. These changes preceded cardiac dysfunction mediated by exposure to
high fat diet and were associated with increased disease severity. Restoration of
metabolic balance by metformin administration prevented the development of heart 
dysfunction in ACHD predisposed mice.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals that early metabolic impairment reinforces heart 
dysfunction in ACHD predisposed individuals and diet or pharmacological
interventions can be used to modulate heart function and attenuate heart failure.
Our study suggests that interactions between genetic and metabolic disturbances
ultimately lead to the clinical presentation of heart failure in patients with
ACHD. Early manipulation of energy metabolism may be an important avenue for
intervention in ACHD patients to prevent or delay onset of heart failure and
secondary comorbidities. These interactions raise the prospect for a
translational reassessment of ACHD presentation in the clinic.
EOF
Interleukin (IL)-17A is pro-inflammatory cytokine which has been identified as a 
noninvasive marker of the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
However, the underlying role of IL-17A in NASH progression remains unclear. This 
study was designed to investigate the biological function and molecular mechanism
of IL-17A in the induction of NASH. The results showed that IL-17A was highly
expressed in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced NASH mouse model. Intravenous injection 
of IL-17A exacerbated steatohepatitis process via promoting hepatocyte apoptosis.
Furthermore, IL-17A-induced apoptosis was mediated by ERK1/2/p65 signaling
pathway. In conclusion, we demonstrated that IL-17A-mediated ERK1/2/p65 signaling
pathway was a promising target for the treatment of NASH. © 2018 IUBMB Life, 1-8,
2018.
EOF
Background: Consumption of fructose-rich diets has been implicated in the
increasing global prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS). Interventions during
periods of early ontogenic developmental plasticity can cause epigenetic changes 
which program metabolism for positive or negative health benefits later in life. 
The phytochemical oleanolic acid (OA) possesses anti-diabetic and anti-obesity
effects. We investigated the potential protective effects of neonatal
administration of OA on the subsequent development of high fructose diet-induced 
metabolic dysfunction in rats.
Method: Male and female (N = 112) suckling rats were randomly assigned to four
groups and administered orally: distilled water (DW), oleanolic acid (OA;
60 mg/kg), high-fructose solution (HF; 20% w/v) or OA + HF for 7 days. The rats
were weaned onto normal commercial rat chow up to day 55. From day 56, half of
the rats in each treatment group were continued on plain water and the rest on a 
high fructose solution as drinking fluid for 8 weeks. On day 110, the rats were
subjected to an oral glucose tolerance test and then euthanased on day 112.
Tissue and blood samples were collected to determine the effects of the
treatments on visceral fat pad mass, fasting plasma levels of cholesterol,
insulin, glucose, triglycerides, insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and glucose
tolerance.
Results: Rats which consumed fructose as neonates and then later as adults
(HF + F) and those which consumed fructose only in adulthood (DW + F) had
significant increases in terminal body mass (females only), visceral fat mass
(males and females), serum triglycerides (females only), epididymal fat (males
only), fasting plasma glucose (males and females), impaired glucose metabolism
(females only), β-cell dysfunction and insulin resistance (males and females)
compared to the other treatment groups (P < 0.05). There were no differences in
fasting serum cholesterol levels across all treatment groups in both male and
female rats (P > 0.05).
Conclusion: We conclude that neonatal oral administration of OA during the
critical window of developmental plasticity protected against the development of 
health outcomes associated with fructose-induced metabolic disorders in the rats.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Fibroblast Activation Protein (FAP), an enzyme structurally related to
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4), has garnered interest as a potential metabolic
drug target due to its ability to cleave and inactivate FGF-21 as well as other
peptide substrates. Here we investigated the metabolic importance of FAP for
control of body weight and glucose homeostasis in regular chow-fed and high fat
diet-fed mice.
METHODS: FAP enzyme activity was transiently attenuated using a highly-specific
inhibitor CPD60 and permanently ablated by genetic inactivation of the mouse Fap 
gene. We also assessed the FAP-dependence of CPD60 and talabostat (Val-boroPro), 
a chemical inhibitor reportedly targeting both FAP and dipeptidyl peptidase-4
RESULTS: CPD60 robustly inhibited plasma FAP activity with no effect on DPP-4
activity. Fap gene disruption was confirmed by assessment of genomic DNA, and
loss of FAP enzyme activity in plasma and tissues. CPD60 did not improve lipid
tolerance but modestly improved acute oral and intraperitoneal glucose tolerance 
in a FAP-dependent manner. Genetic inactivation of Fap did not improve glucose or
lipid tolerance nor confer resistance to weight gain in male or female Fap-/-
mice fed regular chow or high-fat diets. Moreover, talabostat markedly improved
glucose homeostasis in a FAP- and FGF-21-independent, DPP-4 dependent manner.
CONCLUSION: Although pharmacological FAP inhibition improves glucose tolerance,
the absence of a metabolic phenotype in Fap-/-mice suggest that endogenous FAP is
dispensable for the regulation of murine glucose homeostasis and body weight.
These findings highlight the importance of characterizing the specificity and
actions of FAP inhibitors in different species and raise important questions
about the feasibility of mouse models for targeting FAP as a treatment for
diabetes and related metabolic disorders.
EOF
Obesity is associated with a chronic inflammatory response. Interleukin (IL)-38
is a poorly characterized cytokine of the IL-1 family with anti-inflammatory
activity. The role of IL-38 in obesity-induced inflammation and insulin
resistance remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects of IL-38
expression by hydrodynamic-based gene delivery on high-fat diet-induced obesity
in mice. Transfer of plasmid DNA encoding IL-38 reduced weight gain, liver fat
content, adipose tissue weight, and obesity-induced insulin resistance compared
with administration of a control plasmid. Moreover, IL-38 gene delivery inhibited
the production of inflammatory mediators including IL-1β, IL-6, and monocyte
chemotactic protein-1. These results suggest that IL-38 is a potential new target
for the treatment of obesity.
EOF
Childhood and adolescent obesity are currently among the greatest challenges for 
public health. Physical activity, physical fitness, and adherence to the
Mediterranean diet (MD), representing powerful indicators of healthy lifestyles, 
are shown as determinant factors in the prevention and treatment of obesity. The 
aim of the present study has been to analyse the relationship between
health-related physical fitness components, body composition, and adherence to MD
in 387 Icelandic adolescents of 13⁻16-years old (54% boys). The ALPHA Fitness
Test was used to measure physical fitness and body composition. The KIDMED
questionnaire was used to assess the adherence to MD among participants.
Associations between variables were tested according to gender and age using
linear regression models and analysis of variance. Participants with high/medium 
adherence to MD showed significantly higher endurance scores in both the boys and
the girls. Gender differences were found. The boys in high/medium MD categories
had significantly lower fat percentages and ran a 4 × 10 m sprint faster than the
girls. The girls scored higher than the boys in endurance and speed-agility
tests. It can be concluded that a high and medium adherence to MD is associated
with high and very high endurance in both the girls and the boys.
EOF
This study evaluated the consumer's perception towards traditional frankfurters
and frankfurters with healthy attributes through sorting task and hard laddering 
techniques. Images with descriptions of various frankfurter types (traditional,
with natural antioxidants, reduced sodium, reduced fat, as a source of dietary
fibre, with omega 3, no phosphate added, no nitrite added) were presented as
stimuli to 164 previously recruited consumers. The lack of information, natural, 
flavour issues and not being appealing characterised the no phosphate and no
nitrite frankfurter groups. The consequences mentioned by the consumers that
justified the choice of frankfurters with reduced sodium and fat were to avoid
high blood pressure, concern about the prevention of diseases, negative
perception of sodium and fat in the diet and help in weight control. It can be
concluded that consumers are willing to substitute a product in traditional
frankfurter with a healthier option. Among the more promising prospects for the
market, are the frankfurters with reduced sodium and reduced fat.
EOF
Alteration of glycosphingolipid (GSL) expression plays key roles in the
pathogenesis and pathophysiology of many important human diseases, including
cancer, diabetes, and glycosphingolipidosis. Inflammatory processes are involved 
in development and progression of diabetic nephropathy, a major complication of
type 2 diabetes mellitus. GSLs are known to play roles in inflammatory responses 
in various diseases, and levels of renal GSLs are elevated in mouse models of
diabetic nephropathy; however, little is known regarding the pathophysiological
role of these GSLs in this disease process. We studied proinflammatory activity
of GSLs in diabetic nephropathy using spontaneously diabetic mouse strain KK.
Mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) (60% kcal from fat) or normal diet (ND) (4.6%
kcal from fat) for a period of 8 wk. HFD-feeding resulted in quantitative and
qualitative changes of renal globo-series GSLs (particularly Gb3Cer),
upregulation of TNF-α, and induction of renal inflammation. Gb3Cer/Gb4Cer
treatment enhanced inflammatory responses via TLR4 in TLR4/MD-2 complex
expressing cells, including HEK293T, mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages
(BMDMs), and human monocytes. Our findings suggest that HFD-induced increase of
Gb3Cer/Gb4Cer positively modulate TLR4-mediated inflammatory response, and that
such GSLs play an important pathophysiological role in diabetic nephropathy.
EOF
Obesity is associated with increased macrophage and extracellular matrix
accumulation in adipose tissue, which can be partially reversed following weight 
loss by daily caloric restriction. This study examined the effects of 8 weeks of 
intermittent fasting (IF; 24-hour fast on 3 nonconsecutive days per week) in mice
fed a chow or high-fat diet (HFD; 43% fat) on markers of adipose tissue
inflammation and fibrosis. We found that IF decreased energy intake, body weight,
and fat cell size in HFD-fed mice and decreased fat mass and improved glucose
tolerance in chow- and HFD-fed mice. IF decreased mRNA levels of macrophage
markers (Lgals3, Itgax, Ccl2, and Ccl3) in inguinal and gonadal fat, as well as
adipose tissue macrophage numbers in HFD-fed mice only, and altered genes
involved in NLRP3 inflammasome pathway in both diet groups. IF increased mRNA
levels of matrix metallopeptidase 9, which is involved in extracellular matrix
degradation, and reduced mRNA levels of collagen 6 α-1 and tissue inhibitor of
matrix metallopeptidase 1, as well as fibrosis in gonadal fat in HFD-fed mice. In
summary, our results show that intermittent fasting improved glucose tolerance in
chow- and HFD-fed mice and ameliorated adipose tissue inflammation and fibrosis
in HFD-fed mice.
EOF
Background: Obesity is closely associated with bone health. Although diet and
weight loss produce many metabolic benefits, studies of weight loss diets on bone
health are conflicting. Genetic variations, such as vitamin D levels, may partly 
account for these conflicting observations by regulating bone metabolism.
Objective: We investigated whether the genetic variation associated with vitamin 
D concentration affected changes in bone mineral density (BMD) in response to a
weight-loss diet intervention.
Design: In the 2-y Preventing Overweight Using Novel Dietary Strategies (POUNDS
Lost) trial, BMD was measured for 424 participants who were randomly assigned to 
1 of 4 diets varying in macronutrient intakes. A genetic risk score (GRS) was
calculated based on 3 genetic variants [i.e., 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase
(DHCR7) rs12785878, cytochrome P450 2R1 (CYP2R1) rs10741657 and group-specific
component globulin (GC) rs2282679] related to circulating vitamin D levels. A
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scan was performed to assess changes in
whole-body BMD over 2 y. The final analysis included 370 participants at
baseline.
Results: We found a significant interaction between dietary fat intake and
vitamin D GRS on 2-y changes in whole-body BMD (P-interaction = 0.02). In the
high-fat diet group, participants with higher GRS showed significantly less
reduction in whole-body BMD than those with lower GRS, whereas the genetic
associations were not significant in the low-fat diet group. We also found a
significant interaction between dietary fat intake and the GRS on 6-mo change in 
femur neck BMD (P-interaction = 0.02); however, the interaction became
nonsignificant at 2 y.
Conclusion: Our data indicate that dietary fat intake may modify the effect of
vitamin D-related genetic variation on changes in BMD. Overweight or obese
patients predisposed to sufficient vitamin D may benefit more in maintaining BMD 
along with weight loss by eating a low-fat diet. This trial was registered at
clinicaltrials.gov as NCT03258203.
EOF
SCOPE: The aim of the present study is to investigate the efficacy of Nitzschia
laevis extract (NLE) in preventing obesity in mice fed with a high-fat diet
(HFD), and the potential underlying mechanisms focusing on modulation of the gut 
microbiota profile.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Physiological, histological, and biochemical parameters and 
gut microbiota compositions are compared among four experimental groups fed
respectively with the following diets for 8 weeks: Normal chow diet, HFD, HFD +
low concentration of NLE, and HFD + high concentration of NLE. The results
demonstrate that NLE supplementation significantly reduces body weight gain and
effectively prevents lipid accumulation in the white adipose tissue and liver of 
the mice. Mechanistic analysis reveals that NLE promotes the expression of
uncoupling protein 1 and peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor-γ
coactivator-1 mRNA in brown adipose tissue. Furthermore, NLE protects the gut
epithelium and positively reshapes the gut microbiota composition against the
damaging effect of HFD.
CONCLUSIONS: NLE supplementation demonstrates a protective effect against
HFD-induced obesity in mice, which is associated with reshaping the profile of
gut microbiota. To the best of our knowledge, this has been the first report on
the potential of microalgal extract to prevent obesity by modulating gut
microbiota.
EOF
Dibenzoylmethane (DBM) is a beta-diketone analog of curcumin. Numerous studies
have shown the beneficial effects of curcumin on diabetes, obesity and diabetic
complications including diabetic nephropathy. Recently, we investigated the
beneficial metabolic effects of DBM on high-fat diet-induced obesity. However,
the effects and mechanisms of action of DBM in the kidney are currently unknown. 
To investigate the renoprotective effects of DBM in type 2 diabetes, we
administered DBM (100 mg/kg) orally for 12 weeks to high-fat diet-induced
diabetic model mice. We used mouse renal mesangial (MES13) and macrophage (RAW
264.7) cells to examine the mechanism of action of DBM (20 μM). After DBM
treatment, the albumin-to-creatinine ratio was significantly decreased compared
to that of the high-fat-diet group. Moreover, damaged renal ultra-structures and 
functions including increased glomerular volume, glomerular basement membrane
thickness and inflammatory signals were ameliorated after DBM treatment.
Stimulation of MES13 and RAW264.7 cells by palmitate or high-dose glucose with
lipopolysaccharides increased inflammatory signals and macrophage migration.
However, these changes were reversed by DBM treatment. In addition, DBM inhibited
NADPH oxidase 2 and 4 expression and oxidative DNA damage. Collectively, these
data suggested that DBM prevented diabetes-induced renal injury through its
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects.
EOF
Adolescence is a transitional period from childhood to adulthood characterized by
puberty and brain maturation involving behavioral changes and environmental
vulnerability. Diet is one of the factors affecting brain health, potentially
leading to long-lasting effects. Hence, we studied the impact of early exposure
(P21-60) to a high-fat diet (HFD) on mouse hippocampus, analyzing inflammation,
adult neurogenesis, dendritic spine plasticity, and spatial memory. Glycemia and 
seric pro-inflammatory IL1β were higher in HFD mice without differences on body
weight. In the HFD hippocampus, neuroinflammation was evidenced by Iba1+ cells
reactivity together with a higher expression of TNFα and IL1β while the
neurogenic capability in the dentate gyrus was strongly reduced. We found a
predominance of immature Dil-labeled dendritic spines from CA1 neurons along with
diminished levels of the scaffold protein Shank2, suggesting a defective
connectivity. Moreover, the HFD group exhibited spatial memory alterations. To
elucidate whether microglia could be mediating HFD-associated neuronal changes,
the lipotoxic context was emulated by incubating primary microglia with
palmitate, a saturated fatty acid present in HFD. Palmitate induced a
pro-inflammatory profile as shown by secreted cytokine levels. The isolated
exosome fraction from palmitate-stimulated microglia induced an immature
dendritic spine phenotype in primary GFP+ hippocampal neurons, in line with the
in vivo findings. These results provide novel data concerning microglia to neuron
communication and highlight that fat excess during a short and early period of
life could negatively impact on cognition and synaptic plasticity in a
neuroinflammatory context, where microglia-derived exosomes could be implicated. 
Graphical Abstract ᅟ.
EOF
BACKGROUND The development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are 
associated with obesity and hepatosteatosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) 
regulates metabolic homeostasis. This study aimed to investigate the effects of
treatment with the adenosine monophosphate (AMP) analog,
5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (AICAR) on hepatosteatosis in a
mouse model fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) in the HFD mouse model. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
Male C57BL/6 male mice from two weeks of age were fed a high-fat diet, resulting 
in hepatosteatosis. HFD mice (15-20 per group) were treated with AICAR and
without AICAR. HFD mice were treated with DEN, with and without AICAR. Mouse
liver tissues were examined histologically using lipid histochemical stains,
immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. Levels of cytokines, alanine
transaminase (ALT), triacylglyceride (TAG), and apoptosis were determined.
Western blot was used to detect AMPK, pAMPK, STAT3, and pSTAT3. Real-time
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detected expression of the ACL, FAS, CD36,
ATGL, CPT1, and IL6 genes. RESULTS In the HFD mouse model, AICAR treatment
inhibited hepatic lipid synthesis and IL-6 expression. In the DEN-treated mice,
AICAR treatment reduced tumorigenesis, IL-6 signaling, and STAT3 activation.
Short-term AICAR treatment had no significant effect in advanced HCC. CONCLUSIONS
In an HFD mouse model, treatment with AICAR reduced the development of
hepatosteatosis, and following treatment with the liver carcinogen, DEN, AICAR
reduced the development of HCC. These preliminary findings support further
studies on the role of AICAR in fatty liver disease and HCC.
EOF
High levels of guanidinoacetate acid (GAA) deteriorate growth response in broiler
chickens. We propose using coenzyme Q10 , an antioxidant, and taurine (TAU), a
methyl donor, to cope with the situation when high level of GAA included in diet.
GAA was supplemented at 0 (control), 0.75, 1.5 and 2.25 g/kg in isoenergetic and 
isonitrogenous diets and fed to broilers (Cobb 500) from 1 to 40 days post-hatch.
Three additional diets were prepared by adding CoQ10 (40 mg/kg), TAU (40 mg/kg)
or their combination (both CoQ10 and TAU at 40 mg/kg) to the 2.25 g/kg GAA group.
The experimental design used was a completely randomized design. While weight
gain (p = 0.038) and feed conversion ratio (p = 0.024) improved when GAA added at
1.5 g/kg, higher supplementation (2.25 g/kg) deteriorated these responses. These 
responses, however, were significantly restored by using CoQ10 , TAU or their
combination. Abdominal fat deposition was significantly decreased when TAU added 
to broiler diets by virtue of upregulating peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptor alpha. Supplementing broiler diets with CoQ10 and TAU or their
combination significantly decrease ascites mortality. In conclusion, CoQ10 and
TAU have shown beneficial effects when high level of GAA included in broiler
diets.
EOF
A growing number of evidences accumulated about critical metabolic role of
cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1), carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT1) and
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) in some peripheral tissues,
including adipose tissue, liver, skeletal muscle and heart. To better understand 
the interactions of CB1, CPT1 and PPARs in these tissues, 30 diet-induced obese
(DIO) C57BL/6J male mice were obtained, weight-matched and divided into two
groups (15 in each group): (i) DIO/vehicle mice (D-Veh) and (ii) DIO/SR141716
mice (D-SR) treated with SR141716 (or rimonabant, a selective CB1 receptor
blocker) administered orally (10 mg/kg daily). Another 15 mice fed standard diet 
(STD) formed the STD/vehicle group (S-Veh). At the end of 3-week treatment, mean 
body weight was 28.4 ± 0.5, 36.5 ± 0.8, and 30.3 ± 1.2 g for the S-Veh, D-Veh,
and D-SR group, respectively (p < 0.05; D-Veh vs. D-SR). Liver weight in the D-SR
group was also decreased significantly compared to the D-Veh group (p < 0.05).
Serum levels of total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, leptin
and adiponectin in the D-SR group were ameliorated compared to the D-Veh group (p
< 0.05). Both qRT-PCR and Western blot assay revealed that CB1 expression levels 
were efficiently blocked by SR141716 in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT),
visceral adipose tissue (VAT), skeletal muscles and liver (D-SR vs. D-Veh; p <
0.05), whereas there was no significant difference between S-Veh and D-Veh mice
(p > 0.05). Simultaneously with the reduction of CB1 expression in the D-SR
group, the expression levels of CPT1A isoform (protein) in the liver and heart
and CPT1B isoform (protein) in the SAT, VAT, liver and skeletal muscles were
significantly increased (p < 0.05; D-SR vs. D-Veh). Interestingly, the CPT1A and 
CPT1B expression levels in heart were detected slightly. The expression levels of
PPARα in the SAT, VAT, liver and skeletal muscles and PPARγ in the SAT and
skeletal muscles in the D-SR group were significantly increased compared to the
D-Veh mice (p < 0.05). However, the PPARβ expression level differed from that of 
PPARα and PPARγ. Taken together, these data indicate that the inhibition of CB1
could ameliorate lipid metabolism via the stimulation of the CPT1A and CPT1B
expression in vivo. Simultaneously, the PPARα and PPARγ expression levels
significantly differed compared to that of PPARβ in obesity and lipid
metabolism-related disorders under blockade of CB1. Both the mechanism of the
influence of CB1 inhibition on lipid metabolism in the examined tissues and the
specific mechanism of PPARα, PPARγ and PPARβ involvement in lipid exchange under 
these conditions remain to be further elucidated.
EOF
The symptomologies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) develop over decades suggesting
modifiable lifestyle factors may contribute to disease pathogenesis. In humans,
hyperinsulinemia associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus increases the risk for 
developing AD and both diseases share similar age-related etiologies including
amyloidogenesis. Since we have demonstrated that soluble Aβ42 elicits glutamate
release, we wanted to understand how diet-induced insulin resistance alters
hippocampal glutamate dynamics, which are important for memory formation and
consolidation. Eight to twelve-week-old C57BL/6J and AβPP/PS1 mice were placed on
either a low-fat diet or high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 months. A HFD led to
significant weight increases as well as impaired insulin sensitivity, glucose
tolerance, and learning in both C57BL/6J and AβPP/PS1 mice. AβPP/PS1 low-fat diet
mice had elevated hippocampal basal as well as stimulus-evoked glutamate release 
that was further increased with consumption of a HFD. Immunohistochemistry
indicated an increase in vesicular glutamate transporter 1 and glial fibrillary
acidic protein density in hippocampal subregions corresponding with this elevated
extracellular glutamate. While no differences in hippocampal plaque load were
observed, the elevated astrogliotic response surrounding the plaques in AβPP/PS1 
HFD mice may have been a compensatory mechanism to control plaque accumulation.
These data support that AβPP/PS1 mice have chronically elevated extracellular
glutamate that is exacerbated by a HFD and that modifiable lifestyle factors such
as obesity-induced insulin resistance can contribute to AD pathogenesis. OPEN
SCIENCE BADGES: This article has received a badge for *Open Materials* and for
*Open Data* because it made the data publicly available. The data can be accessed
at https://osf.io/5whvu (figures for data) and https://osf.io/gd5vf (materials
and methods). The complete Open Science Disclosure form for this article can be
found at the end of the article. More information about the Open Practices badges
can be found at https://cos.io/our-services/open-science-badges/. Cover Image for
this issue: doi: 10.1111/jnc.14490.
EOF
Sound evidence supports a role for interleukin-17 (IL-17) -producing γδ T cells
and IL-17-producing helper T (Th17) cells in intestinal homeostasis, especially
in intestinal barrier integrity. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the
role of IL-17 cytokine in the regulation of intestinal immunity and
obesity-induced metabolic syndrome (MetS) in an experimental murine model.
C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice and mice lacking the IL-17 cytokine receptor
(IL-17RA-/- ) were fed either a control diet (CD) or a high-fat diet (HFD) for
9 weeks. Our data demonstrate that IL-17RA-/- mice are protected against obesity,
but develop hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. In parallel, 
HFD-fed IL-17RA-/- mice display intense inflammation in the ileum compared with
WT mice on the HFD. IL-17RA-/- mice fed the HFD exhibit impaired neutrophil
migration to the intestinal mucosa and reduced gene expression of the CXCL-1
chemokine and CXCR-2 receptor in the ileum. Interestingly, the populations of
neutrophils (CD11b+  Ly6G+ ) and anti-inflammatory macrophages (CD11b+  CX3CR1+ )
are increased in the mesenteric lymph nodes of these mice. IL-17RA-/- mice on the
HFD also display increased commensal bacterial translocation into the bloodstream
and elevated lipopolysaccharide (LPS) levels in the visceral adipose tissue
(VAT). Metagenomic analysis of bacterial 16S gene revealed increased
Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes phyla, the main representatives of Gram-negative
bacteria, and reduced Akkermansia muciniphila in the fecal samples of IL-17RA-/- 
mice fed the HFD. Together, these data indicate that the IL-17/IL-17R axis drives
intestinal neutrophil migration, limits gut dysbiosis and attenuates LPS
translocation to VAT, resulting in protection to MetS.
EOF
Adipogenesis involved in hypertrophy and hyperplasia of adipocytes is responsible
for expanding the mass of adipose tissues in obese individuals. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α
(C/EBPα) are two principal transcription factors induced by delicate signaling
pathways, including signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5),
in adipogenesis. Here, we demonstrated a novel role of ginkgetin, a biflavone
from Ginkgo biloba leaves, as a STAT5 inhibitor that blocks the differentiation
of preadipocytes into adipocytes. During the differentiation of 3T3-L1 cells,
ginkgetin treatment during the first 2 days markedly inhibited the formation of
lipid-bearing adipocytes. PPARγ and C/EBPα expression was decreased in 3T3-L1
cells during adipogenesis following ginkgetin treatment, whereas no change was
observed in C/EBPβ or C/EBPδ expression. Inhibition of PPARγ and C/EBPα
expression by ginkgetin occurred through the prevention of STAT5 activation
during the initiation phase of adipogenesis. In addition, ginkgetin-mediated the 
inhibition of adipogenesis was recapitulated in the differentiation of primary
preadipocytes. Lastly, we confirmed the inhibitory effects of ginkgetin on the
hypertrophy of white adipose tissues from high-fat diet-fed mice. These results
indicate that ginkgetin is a potential anti-adipogenesis and anti-obesity drug.
EOF
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Shenque is an acupoint located in the umbilicus
and connected with the meridians. Thus, acupoint herbs applied at Shenque plays a
pivotal role in the Chinese traditional medicine due to its sensitivity,
permeability, and absorption. Many studies reported the use of Shenque point as a
successful therapeutic approach. However, the effect of garlic oil (GO) applied
at Shenque point to combat obesity is unmet. Consequently, we investigated the
potential benefit of GO applied at Shenque point against obesity.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To investigate GO effects on obese rats applied at Shenque
acupoint and orally administered, and to identify the chemical constituents of
GO.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rats were randomly divided into 2 groups: naive and model 
group. The model group rats were fed with a high fat diet for 7 weeks to induce
obesity, and then they were randomly divided into 5 groups: model, GO Shenque
point treated groups (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg/day) and oral group (50 mg/kg/day).
Biochemical indexes in the serum, weight of adipose tissue and liver
histopathology were evaluated after 6 weeks of GO treatment using a Hitachi 7080 
analyzer (Hitachi, Japan). Moreover, GO chemical components were detected by gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometer (GC-MS).
RESULTS: Compared with the naive rats, model rats exhibited higher body and liver
weight, increased fat deposition, higher triglyceride concentration and alveolar 
development. In contrast, GO Shenque point treated groups showed a substantial
decrease in body weight (P = 0.358, 0.028, 0.031, respectively), fat mass,
cholesterol (P = 0.004, 0.041, 0.001, respectively), triglyceride (P = 0.001,
0.001, 0.001, respectively), and low density lipoprotein concentrations
(P = 0.001, 0.000, 0.001, respectively). The effect was more remarkable than the 
GO orally administered. In addition, twelve GO organosulfur compounds were
identified by GC-MS and diallyl trisulfide (DATS) was detected as the main
compound, with a 32.08% concentration.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrated that GO had a significant anti-obesity
effect on obese rats by reducing the body weight and protecting the liver from
damage, and the effect of Shenque point treatment was better than oral
administration, suggesting that GO was an effective weight-loss drug and Shenque 
point administration might be considered as a new anti-obesity approach.
EOF
Since the metabolic disorder may be the high risk that contribute to the progress
of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Overtaken of High-fat, high-glucose or
high-cholesterol diet may hasten the incidence of AD in later life, due to the
metabolic dysfunction. But the metabolism of lipid in brain and the exact effect 
of lipid to brain or to the AD's pathological remain controversial. Here we
summarize correlates of lipid metabolism and AD to provide more foundation for
the daily nursing of AD sensitive patients.
EOF
Hypothalamic inflammation has been known as a contributor to high-fat diet
(HFD)-induced insulin resistance and obesity. Myeloid-specific sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) 
deletion aggravates insulin resistance and hypothalamic inflammation in HFD-fed
mice. Neurogranin, a calmodulin-binding protein, is expressed in the
hypothalamus. However, the effects of myeloid SIRT1 deletion on hypothalamic
neurogranin has not been fully clarified. To investigate the effect of myeloid
SIRT1 deletion on food intake and hypothalamic neurogranin expression, mice were 
fed a HFD for 20 weeks. Myeloid SIRT1 knockout (KO) mice exhibited higher food
intake, weight gain, and lower expression of anorexigenic proopiomelanocortin in 
the arcuate nucleus than WT mice. In particular, KO mice had lower ventromedial
hypothalamus (VMH)-specific neurogranin expression. However, SIRT1 deletion
reduced HFD-induced hypothalamic neurogranin. Furthermore, hypothalamic
phosphorylated AMPK and parvalbumin protein levels were also lower in HFD-fed KO 
mice than in HFD-fed WT mice. Thus, these findings suggest that myeloid SIRT1
deletion affects food intake through VMH-specific neurogranin-mediated AMPK
signaling and hypothalamic inflammation in mice fed a HFD.
EOF
Polyphenols are known for their various health benefits. Blueberries are dietary 
sources of polyphenols with reported health benefits. However, the role of
blueberry polyphenols in alleviating obesity is not completely understood. This
study investigated the potential positive effect of blueberry polyphenol extract 
(PPE) on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity in C57BL/6 J mice by modulation of
the gut microbiota. Four-week-old C57BL/6 J mice were fed a normal-fat diet or
HFD with or without PPE or Orlistat for 12 weeks. Mice fed HFD exhibited
increased body weight and adipose tissue weight and disordered lipid metabolism. 
In contrast, PPE inhibited body weight gain and returned lipid metabolism to
normal. Furthermore, 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the fecal microbiota suggested
that PPE changed the composition of the gut microbiota in C57BL/6 J mice and
modulated specific bacteria such as Proteobacteria, Deferribacteres,
Actinobacteria, Bifidobacterium, Desulfovibrio, Adlercreutzia, Helicobacter,
Flexispira, and Prevotella. Orlistat also improved obesity and metabolic
alterations of HFD mice and modulated the composition of the gut microbiota. Our 
findings suggest that PPE, as a potential prebiotic agent, influences the gut
microbiota to positively affect HFD-induced obesity in C57BL/6 J mice.
EOF
Midlife obesity is a risk factor for cognitive decline and is associated with the
earlier onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Diets high in saturated fat potentiate
the onset of obesity, microglial activation, and neuroinflammation. Signaling
deficiencies in the hypothalamic peptide orexin and/or orexin fiber loss are
linked to neurodegeneration, cognitive impairment, and neuroinflammation. Prior
studies show that orexin is neuroprotective, suppresses neuroinflammation, and
that treatment with orexin improves cognitive processes in orexin/ataxin-3 (O/A3)
mice, a transgenic mouse model of orexin neurodegeneration. Our overall
hypothesis is that loss of orexin contributes to high fat diet (HFD)-induced
hippocampal neuroinflammation and cognitive decline. To examine this, we tested
male O/A3 mice (7-8 mo. of age) in a two-way active avoidance (TWAA)
hippocampus-dependent memory task. We tested whether (1) orexin loss impaired
cognitive function; (2) HFD worsened cognitive impairment; and (3) HFD increased 
microglial activation and neuroinflammation. O/A3 mice showed significant
impairments in TWAA task learning vs. wild type (WT) mice (increased escapes
p < 0.05, reduced avoidances p < 0.0001). Mice were then placed on HFD (45% total
fat, 31.4% saturated fat) or remained on normal chow (NC; 4% total fat and 1%
saturated fat), and TWAA was retested at 2 and 4 weeks. Learning impairment was
evident at both 2 and 4 weeks in O/A3 mice fed HFD for following diet exposure
vs. WT mice on normal chow or HFD (increased escapes, reduced avoidances
p < 0.05). Additionally, O/A3 mice had increased gene expression of the
microglial activation marker Iba-1 (measured via qRT-PCR, p < 0.001). Further
characterization of the microglial immune response genes in hippocampal tissue
revealed a significant increase in CX3 chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1), tumor
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and the mitochondria-associated enzyme immune
responsive gene-1 (Irg1). Collectively, our results indicate that orexin loss
impairs memory, and that HFD accelerates hippocampus-dependent learning deficits 
and the onset of neuroinflammation.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Sulfonylureas (SUs) have been suggested to have an
insulin-independent blood glucose-decreasing activity due to an extrapancreatic
effect. However, a lack of adequate in vivo evidence makes this statement
controversial. Here, we aimed to evaluate whether glimepiride has extrapancreatic
blood glucose-lowering activity in vivo.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Sulfonylurea receptor 1 deficient (SUR1-/- ) rats were
created by means of transcription activator-like effector nucleases
(TALEN)-mediated gene targeting technology. Type 2 diabetic models were
established by feeding a high-fat diet and administering a low-dose of
streptozotocin. These rats were then randomly divided into four groups:
glimepiride, gliclazide, metformin and saline. All rats were treated for 2 weeks.
KEY RESULTS: Glimepiride decreased blood glucose levels and increased insulin
sensitivity without elevating insulin levels. Gliclazide showed similar effects
as glimepiride. Both agents were weaker than metformin. Further mechanistic
investigations revealed that glimepiride increased hepatic glycogen synthesis and
decreased gluconeogenesis, which were accompanied by the activation of Akt in the
liver. Moreover, glimepiride increased both total and membrane glucose
transporter 4 (GLUT4) levels in muscle and fat, which might be attributed to
insulin receptor-independent IRS1/Akt activation.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Glimepiride possesses an extrapancreatic blood
glucose-lowering effect in vivo, which might be attributed to its direct effect
on insulin-sensitive tissues. Therefore, the combination of glimepiride with
multiple insulin injections should not be excluded per se.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Associating liver partition and portal vein ligation (ALPPS) is a
promising two-step hepatectomy that is beneficial for accumulative regeneration
of the future liver remnant (FLR) and avoids postoperative liver failure.
AIMS: Our study aimed to evaluate whether nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
affected the liver regeneration induced by ALPPS.
METHODS: Sprague-Dawley rats fed a high-fat diet were used to construct the NAFLD
model. ALPPS were performed, and blood and future liver remnant samples were
collected at postoperative days 1 (POD1), POD3, and POD7.
RESULTS: The hepatic regeneration rate (HRR) of ALPPS was higher than that of
portal vein ligation (PVL) at POD3 and POD7 (p < 0.05), and the number of
Ki-67-positive hepatocytes (POD3) and CD68-positive Kupffer cells (POD7) per
visual field was higher in the ALPPS group than in the PVL group (p < 0.05). The 
serum TNF-α, hepatocyte growth factor protein, and the serum IL-6 level were
higher in the ALPPS group than in the PVL group at POD3 and POD7. Compared with
those of the standard laboratory diet (SLD)-fed rats, the rats with NAFLD
exhibited a decrease in the HRR, Ki-67-positive hepatocytes, and CD68-positive
Kupffer cells in the FLR. The number of CD68-positive Kupffer cells was lower in 
rats with NAFLD than that in SLD-fed rats; noteworthily, the serum level of IL-6 
and TNF-α changed dramatically after surgeries.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD induction delayed liver regeneration induced by the ALPPS
procedure, which might be associated with hepatocyte proliferation and the number
of Kupffer cells.
EOF
PURPOSE: To report the development of an ultimately fatal occurrence of
Fournier's gangrene in a rectal cancer patient undergoing neoadjuvant
radiotherapy without chemotherapy.
METHODS: A 53-year-old male patient with G2 cT3 cN1a cM0 stage IIIB
adenocarcinoma of the lower rectum and several comorbidities including ulcerative
colitis was treated with 56 Gy to the primary tumor in 28 fractions because he
declined the recommended simultaneous chemotherapy. He was also enrolled in the
ketogenic diet arm of our KETOCOMP study, so that prospective measurements of
blood parameters, quality of life, and body composition were made.
RESULTS: The patient died 6 days after completion of radiotherapy due to septic
shock associated with Fournier's gangrene reaching from the right buttock into
the gluteal muscles and descending into the scrotum. In retrospect, there were
several signs probably indicating the development of the gangrene: (i) a decline 
in bioelectrical phase angle; (ii) an accelerated weight and fat-free mass loss
starting in the third week of radiotherapy; (iii) an increase in C-reactive
protein (CRP) and concurrent drop in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol
and insulin-like growth factor(IGF)-1 concentrations; and (iv) the occurrence of 
a sharp pain in the perianal region reported in the fifth week of radiotherapy.
Notably, his self-reported quality of life score was the same at the end of as
before radiotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the occurrence of Fournier's gangrene as an
extremely rare but life-threatening complication during neoadjuvant radiotherapy 
for rectal cancer which should be refreshed in the awareness of radiation
oncologists and radiologists.
EOF
Obesity increases the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but precise
identification and characterization of druggable oncogenic pathways that
contribute to the progression of NAFLD to HCC, and hence to the increased
incidence and aggressiveness of HCC in obese individuals is lacking. In this
regard, we demonstrate that the Indian Hedgehog (Ihh) signaling pathway is
upregulated in the fatty livers of mice consuming a high fat diet, and
furthermore sustained in HCC tumors specifically within the context of a NAFLD
microenvironment. Using a diet-induced mouse model of HCC wherein only obese mice
develop HCC, targeted ablation of hepatocyte-secreted Ihh results in a decreased 
tumor burden and lower grade tumors. Ihh activation regulates the
transdifferentiation of ciliated stellate cells and proliferation of Epcam+
ductal cells to promote fibrosis. Mechanistically, increased expression of
hitherto uncharacterized effectors of Hh pathway, namely Myc and Tgf-β2 is
critical to the observed physiology. This pro-tumorigenic response is driven by
increased expression of Wnt5a to effect a poorly-differentiated and invasive
tumor phenotype. Wnt5a secreted from activated stellate cells act on
Ror2-expressing hepatocytes. We further demonstrate that Wnt5a expression is also
elevated in poorly-differentiated HCC cells, suggesting that these ligands are
also able to function in an autocrine positive feedback manner to sustain
poorly-differentiated tumors. Taken together, our study provides a mechanistic
understanding for how Ihh signaling promotes HCC tumorigenesis specifically in
obese mice. We propose that therapeutic targeting of the Hh pathway offers
benefit for patients with dietary / NAFLD-driven steatotic HCC.
EOF
Stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), a lipogenic enzyme that adds a double bond at
the delta 9 position of stearate (C18: 0) and palmitate (C16: 0), has been proven
to be important in the development of obesity. Mice with skin-specific deficiency
of SCD1 (SKO) display increased whole-body energy expenditure, which is
protective against adiposity from a high-fat diet because it improves glucose
clearance, insulin sensitivity, and hepatic steatosis. Of note, these mice also
display elevated levels of the "pro-inflammatory" plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6). In
whole skin of SKO mice, IL-6 mRNA levels are increased, and protein expression is
evident in hair follicle cells and in keratinocytes. Recently, the well-known
role of IL-6 in causing white adipose tissue lipolysis has been linked to
indirectly activating the gluconeogenic enzyme pyruvate carboxylase 1 in the
liver, thereby increasing hepatic glucose production. In this study, we suggest
that skin-derived IL-6 leads to white adipose tissue lipolysis, which contributes
to the lean phenotype of SKO mice without the incidence of meta-inflammation that
is associated with IL-6 signaling.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Resolvins have been shown to attenuate inflammation, whereas NETosis, 
the process of neutrophils releasing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs),
produces increased inflammation. It is hypothesized that treatment of animals
with resolvin D1 (RvD1) would reduce abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) formation by
inhibiting NETosis.
METHODS: Wild-type 8- to 12-week-old C57BL/6 male mice (n = 47) and
apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice (n = 20) were used in two models to
demonstrate the effects of RvD1 on AAA growth. In the topical elastase AAA model,
wild-type mice were divided into three groups: a deactivated elastase control
group, in which sham surgery was performed using deactivated elastase and mice
were intravenously injected with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) once a day until
harvest; an elastase group, in which active elastase was used to induce AAA and
mice were injected with PBS daily until harvest; and an RvD1-treated group, in
which AAA was induced and mice were injected with RvD1 daily until harvest. In
the angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced AAA model, ApoE-/- mice were fed a high-fat
diet and implanted with osmotic infusion pumps containing Ang II
(1000 ng/kg/min). The Ang II model was divided into two groups: an Ang II control
group, in which Ang II was delivered and mice were injected with PBS daily until 
harvest; and an RvD1-treated group, in which Ang II was delivered and mice were
injected with RvD1 daily until harvest. On postoperative day 3, day 14, or day
28, aortic and blood samples were collected for Western blot, histology, cytokine
array, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and gelatin zymography after aortic
diameter measurement.
RESULTS: The day 14 RvD1-treated group demonstrated 42% reduced AAA diameter
compared with the elastase group (P < .001). On postoperative day 3, the
RvD1-treated group showed decreased levels of NETosis markers citrullinated
histone H3 (P = .04) and neutrophil elastase (P = .002) compared with the
elastase group. Among important cytokines involved in AAA formation, interleukin 
(IL) 1β was downregulated (P = .02) whereas IL-10, a protective cytokine, was
upregulated (P = .01) in the RvD1-treated group. Active matrix metalloproteinase 
2 also decreased in the RvD1-treated group (P = .03). The RvD1-treated group in
the Ang II AAA model, a second model, demonstrated reduced AAA diameter compared 
with the Ang II control group on day 28 (P < .046). The RvD1-treated group showed
decreased levels of citrullinated histone H3 on day 3 (P = .002). Cytokines
interferon γ, IL-1β, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10, monocyte chemotactic
protein 1, and regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted
(RANTES) were all decreased on day 28 (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: RvD1-mediated inhibition of NETosis may represent a future medical
treatment for the attenuation of AAA growth.
EOF
Although peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are widely used as a valuable
tool able to provide biomarkers of health and diseases, little is known about
PBMC functional (biochemistry-based) metabolism, particularly following
short-term nutritional challenges. In the present study, the metabolic capacity
of minipig PBMCs to respond to nutritional challenges was explored at the
biochemical and molecular levels. The changes observed in enzyme activities
following a control test meal revealed that PBMC metabolism is highly reactive to
the arrival of nutrients and hormones in the circulation. The consumption, for
the first time, of a high fat⁻high sucrose (HFHS) meal delayed or sharply reduced
most of the observed postprandial metabolic features. In a second experiment,
minipigs were subjected to two-month HFHS feeding. The time-course follow-up of
metabolic changes in PBMCs showed that most of the adaptations to the new diet
took place during the first week. By comparing metabolic (biochemical and
molecular) PMBC profiles to those of the liver, skeletal muscle, and adipose
tissue, we concluded that although PBMCs conserved common features with all of
them, their response to the HFHS diet was closely related to that of the adipose 
tissue. As a whole, our results show that PBMC metabolism, particularly during
short-term (postprandial) challenges, could be used to evaluate the whole-body
metabolic status of an individual. This could be particularly interesting for
early diagnosis of metabolic disease installation, when fasting clinical analyses
fail to diagnose the path towards the pathology.
EOF
Turmeric is a well-known functional food exhibiting multiple biological
activities in health and disease. However, low aqueous solubility and poor
bioavailability limit its therapeutic potential. Herein, we investigated the
utility of nanoemulsions as a carrier to improve the efficacy of turmeric.
Compared with turmeric extract (TE), 5% TE-loaded nanoemulsion (TE-NE), which
contains 20-fold lower curcumin content than TE, achieved similar inhibition of
palmitate-induced lipotoxicity in HepG2 cells. Exposure of HepG2 cells to 5%
TE-NE also suppressed the palmitate-induced accumulation of lipid vacuoles and
reactive oxygen species comparably with TE, and was accompanied by decreased
levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1, peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor-γ2 (PPAR-γ2), cleaved caspase-3, and poly
(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Consistent with these effects in HepG2 cells,
oral administration of 5% TE-NE to mice fed a high fat diet (HFD) markedly
suppressed lipid accumulation in liver, leading to a significant reduction in
body weight and adipose tissue weight, equivalent to the effects observed with
TE. Compared with TE, 5% TE-NE also equivalently inhibited the levels of SREBP-1,
PPAR-γ2, cleaved caspase-3, and PARP in the liver of mice fed a HFD. Furthermore,
TE and 5% TE-NE significantly improved serum lipid profiles in a similar manner. 
These observations indicate that nanoemulsions can improve the efficacy of
turmeric, thereby eliciting more potent biological efficacy against palmitate-
and high fat diet (HFD)-induced cellular damage.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Insulin resistance (IR) and obesity predispose diseases
such as diabetes, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disorders.
Beta-caryophyllene (BCP), a natural sesquiterpene, exerts neuroprotective,
anxiolytic and antidepressant effects via its selective agonism to cannabinoid
receptor 2 (CB2R). BCP was shown to have an anti-diabetic effect, however, the
implication of CB2R is yet to be elucidated. A link between CB2R agonism and
PPAR-γ activation has been discussed, but the exact mechanism is not
well-defined. This study was designed to examine the role of BCP in improving
diet-induced metabolic (insulin resistance), neurobehavioral (anxiety, depression
and memory deficit), and neurochemical (oxidative, inflammatory and neurotrophic 
factor) alterations in the prefrontal cortex of obese rats' brain. The
involvement of CB2R and/or PPAR-γ dependent activity was also investigated.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Male Wistar rats were fed a high fat/fructose diet (HFFD) 
for 12 weeks to induce IR and obesity. Rats were treated with BCP for the last 4 
weeks. Either CB2R antagonist AM630 or PPAR-γ antagonist BADGE was administered
before BCP treatment to study the mechanism of BCP actions.
KEY RESULTS: Beta-caryophyllene alleviated HFFD-induced IR, oxidative-stress,
neuroinflammation and behavioral changes. The anxiolytic, anti-oxidant and
anti-inflammatory effects of BCP were mediated by both PPAR-γ and CB2R. The
effects of BCP on glycemic parameters seem to be CB2R-dependent with the
non-significant role of PPAR-γ. Furthermore, BCP-evoked antidepressant and memory
improvement are likely mediated only via CB2R, mainly by upregulation of PGC-1α
and BDNF.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests the potential effect of BCP in treating
HFFD-induced metabolic and neurobehavioral alterations. BCP seems to activate
PPAR-γ in a ligand-independent manner, via upregulation and activation of PGC-1α.
The BCP activation of PPAR--γ seems to be CB2R-dependent.
EOF
Decabromodiphenyl ether (decaBDE) is a brominated flame retardant used in plastic
and textile articles. It has become a ubiquitous environmental contaminant,
however; the relationship between decaBDE and obesity remains to be elucidated.
We aimed to clarify if oral decaBDE exposure can be a factor in obesity and its
related metabolic dysfuctions. Male C57BL/6 J mice were fed a normal (ND,
9.0 kcal% fat) or high-fat (HFD, 62.2 kcal% fat) diet and treated with decaBDE
(the equivalent of three doses of 0, 0.5 (L-DecaBDE), and 10 (H-DecaBDE) μg/kg
body weight/day) ad libitum in drinking water from 5 to 20 weeks of age. In
HFD-fed mice, decaBDE exposure markedly increased both fasting blood glucose
levels compared with vehicle exposure, which was more prominent in
H-DecaBDE-exposed mice. DecaBDE exposure significantly reduced mRNA levels of
glucose transporter 4 and thyroid hormone receptor alpha in skeletal muscle and
mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 2 in brown adipose tissue compared with
vehicle exposure under HFD-feeding. The tendency for hyperglycemia and the
remarkable activation of insulin signaling pathway-related genes were observed in
ND + DecaBDE mice compared to the ND + Vehicle mice. These results demonstrate
that decaBDE can contribute to the enhancement of diet-induced hyperglycemia
through disruption of glucose homeostasis.
EOF
The 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA) was issued in early 2016. It
remains untested if adherence to these guidelines could reduce mortality risk.
Using a modified version of the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for American Index (2015 
DGAI), we investigated if adherence to the new DGA is associated with mortality
in a Spanish (the Seguimiento Universidad de Navarra, SUN) cohort. We assessed
the habitual diet of 16,866 participants of this cohort recruited between 1999
and 2014 and calculated their adherence scores to the new DGA using the modified 
2015 DGAI (0-21points). Mortality data was determined from the yearly National
Death Index reports. After adjusting for demographic and lifestyle confounders,
high adherence scores (fourth quartile) were found to be associated with reduced 
all-cause, cardiovascular and cancer mortality risk, hazard ratios (HR) (95%
confidence intervals [CI]) 0.42 (0.25-0.70), 0.30 (0.10-0.90) and 0.46
(0.22-0.96), respectively, compared to low adherence scores (first quartile). A
2-point increase in the 2015 DGAI score was linearly inversely associated with
all-cause mortality (HR [95% CI] 0.78 [0.67-0.92]). Main sources of variability
in the adherence scores were whole-fat dairy products, red/orange vegetables,
fresh fruits, red meat, and dark green vegetables. In conclusion, higher
adherence to 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans was inversely associated 
with total, cardiovascular and cancer mortality risk in a Spanish cohort.
EOF
BACKGROUND This study investigated the effect and the possible mechanism of
trimetazidine in atherosclerosis. MATERIAL AND METHODS We established an
atherosclerotic rat model by high-fat diet and vitamin D injection. Rats were
separated into 3 different groups: control, atherosclerosis, and trimetazidine
(n=10). The aortic artery was isolated and its morphological features were
examined by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining. Serum low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-c), total cholesterol (TC), and triglycerides (TG) were analyzed
using an automatic biochemical analyzer. Human aortic smooth muscle cells
(HASMCs) were cultured and divided into 5 groups: no treatment, H₂O₂ treatment
only, trimetazidine preincubation before H₂O₂ treatment, oxidized low-density
lipoprotein (oxLDL) treatment only, and trimetazidine preincubation before oxLDL 
treatment. HASMCs proliferation was tested using the Cell Counting Kit-8.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, superoxide
dismutase (SOD) activity of the aortic artery, and HASMCs were measured using
commercially available kits. RESULTS HE staining assay showed that trimetazidine 
suppressed the progression of atherosclerosis and reduced foam cell formation in 
the aortic artery without affecting serum lipid levels. HASMCs proliferation
assay revealed that trimetazidine alleviated the inhibitory effect of H₂O₂ on
HASMCs proliferation and inhibited oxLDL-induced proliferation of HASMCs.
Moreover, trimetazidine ameliorated ROS up-regulation elicited by H₂O₂ or oxLDL
in HASMCs. Additionally, trimetazidine restored SOD activity and reduced MDA
content of HASMCs. CONCLUSIONS Trimetazidine suppressed the progression of
atherosclerosis by enhancing energy value, decreasing ROS level of aortic artery,
modulating HASMCs proliferation, and reducing oxidative stress in HASMCs.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to explore the effects of p-cresyl sulfate (PCS) of
damaging vascular endothelial cells and promoting the formation of
atherosclerosis in mice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-/- mice were fed normally and 
with a high-fat diet; the ApoE-/- mice fed with high-fat diet were divided into
two groups and treated with blank control and PCS, respectively. The aortic arch 
in each group was taken and underwent the oil red O staining, and the serum PCS
content in each group was detected. The basic components of plaque were observed,
including foam cells, lipid deposition, and cholesterol crystal. Moreover, human 
umbilical vein endothelial cells were cultured and divided into control group,
PCS treatment group (PCS), PCS treatment with TLR4 overexpression group
(PCS+TLR4+), and PCS treatment with TLR4 knock-out group (PCS+TLR4-). The degree 
of endothelial cell damage was detected using a cluster of differentiation
CD42b-/CD31+ endothelial microparticles (EMPs), and expressions of Toll-like
receptor 4 (TLR4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 (TREM-1),
phosphorylated-endothelial nitric oxide synthase (p-eNOS), and tumor necrosis
factor-α (TNF-α) in cells were detected via Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) and
Western blotting.
RESULTS: The serum PCS concentration in high-fat ApoE-/- mice was increased, and 
the aortic arch sections of ApoE-/- mice treated with PCS displayed the evident
atherosclerotic plaques. Experimental results of human umbilical vein endothelial
cells showed that the activity of human umbilical vein endothelial cells treated 
with PCS declined, the expression levels of TLR4, TREM-1, and TNF-α were
increased, while that of p-eNOS was decreased. After the TLR4 knockout, the above
effects of PCS were reversed.
CONCLUSIONS: PCS damages vascular endothelial cells through TRL4/TREM-1, thereby 
accelerating the formation of atherosclerosis.
EOF
SCOPE: Selenium is an important nutrient for human health. The influence of
dietary selenium on lipid metabolism remains largely unknown.
N-γ-(l-glutamyl)-l-selenomethionine (Glu-SeMet) on inhibition of fat accumulation
and its underlying mechanisms in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans are
investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Triacylglyceride quantification and post-fixed Nile red
staining methods are conducted to evaluate fat accumulation in wild-type N2 worms
in normal or high-glucose diet. Glu-SeMet (0.01 µm) treatment effectively reduces
fat storage in wild-type N2 C. elegans in both a normal and high-glucose diet.
Further evidence shows that Glu-SeMet (0.01 µm) decreases the ratio of oleic
acid/stearic acid (C18:1Δ9/C18:0) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
analysis. The mRNA levels of fatty acid stearoyl-CoA desaturases, FAT-6 and
FAT-7, and the mediator-15 (MDT-15) are downregulated while the wild-type N2
worms are co-treated with high glucose and Glu-SeMet (0.01 µm). The effect of
reduced fat accumulation is absent in fat-6, fat-7, and trxr-1 mutant worms under
high glucose and Glu-SeMet (0.01 µm) co-treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that Glu-SeMet inhibiting fat accumulation
may be associated with FAT-6 and FAT-7 and the selenoprotein TRXR-1 in
C. elegans. This study implies a potential for Glu-SeMet as a new treatment for
obesity or its complications.
EOF
In recent years, two meta-analyses of chromium (Cr) supplementation have shown
beneficial effects on glucose metabolism. Chromium histidinate (CrHis) reduces
serum glucose levels in rats fed a high-fat diet but no study has been conducted 
on cats until now. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of CrHis on
glucose and lipid metabolism in cats. To challenge the glucose metabolism, 16
cats were fed a high-carbohydrate high-fat diet for three months. One group
(n = 8) received 800 ug CrHis per day for two months, while the other group
(n = 8) served as control group. An oral glucose tolerance test was conducted,
blood samples were taken, and biochemical parameters and oxidative stress were
measured. CrHis serum levels were significantly increased (p = 0.027) in the
treatment group, while fructosamine levels were significantly lower (p = 0.029)
in the control group. In both groups, glucose (p < 0.01), b-hydroxy-butyrate
(p = 0.024) and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (p = 0.028) levels decreased
significantly and cholesterol levels increased significantly (p < 0.01). In
conclusion, CrHis did not improve glucose or lipid metabolism and did not affect 
oxidative stress in healthy cats.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Analysing dietary patterns (DP) evaluates overall dietary intake,
taking account of its complexity, quality, variance and the interaction between
different foods, providing an alternative approach for the evaluation of
nutritional influences on age-related macular degeneration (AMD) risk.
AIMS: To evaluate the relationship between DP and AMD in an older female
population.
METHODS: Data was analysed from the cross-sectional Irish Nun Eye Study involving
1233 older women with a restricted lifestyle (mean age 76.3 years [range,
56-100 years). The Wisconsin Age-related Maculopathy Grading System was used to
classify digital colour macular fundus images and dietary intake was assessed
using a food frequency questionnaire (n = 1033). A posteriori DP were derived
using principal component analysis. Logistic regression models examined
associations between DP and AMD risk with adjustment for confounders.
RESULTS: Two DP were identified: a 'healthy' pattern characterised by a high
intake of oily fish, wholegrains, vegetables and fruit; and an 'unhealthy'
pattern characterised by high-fat dairy products, sugar, sweets and chips. Of the
participants included within the analysis, AMD status were categorised as
controls (n = 818, 86.9%), early AMD (n = 83, 8.8%) and late AMD (n = 21, 2.2%). 
Regression analysis failed to identify any significant associations between
healthy or unhealthy DP and AMD risk, in unadjusted and adjusted models.
CONCLUSION: No evidence of an association between the DP identified and AMD risk 
was detected in this well-characterised population. Further research is required 
to determine the overall dietary influences on AMD risk in general population
cohorts.
EOF
The goals of this study were to identify groups of health-related behaviors among
young adults (N = 314, Mage = 21.94, SD = 6.53), gauge the relation between
emotional intelligence and health behaviors in this population, and assess health
consciousness as mediator of said relation. Latent class analysis identified two 
mutually exclusive health behavior groups, which according to response patterns
were labeled as Healthy and Unhealthy. The Healthy group (56%) was composed of
individuals who had a healthy diet (i.e., low fat and high fiber), exercised
regularly, and who frequently engaged in behaviors that prevent oral and
skin-related diseases. In contrast, the Unhealthy group (44%) rarely engaged in
these health-promoting behaviors. Using structural equation modeling we found a
negative relation between emotional intelligence and unhealthy behaviors relative
to health-promoting ones. Mediation analyses indicated that the mechanism
explaining said relation was through increments in health consciousness, with
large standardized indirect effects ranging between -0.52 and -0.78. As health
behaviors during early adulthood are salient predictors of health outcomes in old
age, the results have clear implications for the inclusion of emotional
intelligence training in programs seeking to raise health awareness and cultivate
health promoting behaviors in young adults, in so much as to seek to reduce the
risk of chronic ailments later in life.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: The main goal of our studies was to investigate the effect exerted by 
pulsed electromagnetic led (PEMF) on adipocytokines secretion in cell culture
supernatants from rat adipose derived stem cells (ADSCs) grown on varied
energy-rich diet. O spring and adult animals were randomly selected for two types
of experimental diets: low (LF) or high fat (HF) diet for 7 weeks. A er the diet 
period, serum glucose level was measured, ADSCs were isolated from adipose
tissues from different locations. ADSCs from all experimental groups were exposed
to PEMF, supernatants collected and adipokines level was determined.
RESULTS: HF diet feed in pups/adult animals elevated blood glucose level and
increased the level of adiponectin (Apn) and leptin of both genders and age
measured in serum. ADSCs cell cultures originated from female pups on LF diet and
exposed to PEMF released large amounts of Apn. PEMF effect exerted on Apn release
was also observed in ADSCs isolated from male pups HF diet. ADSCs from female
pups on LF diet exposed to PEMF released smaller amounts of leptin in comparison 
to cell cultures without PEMF treatment. PEMF exposure of ADSCs cell cultures
originated from female adults on LF diet decreased release of Apn, contrary adult
male on LF diet ADSCs under PEMF treatment produced more leptin. PEMF treated
male HF diet-originated ADSCs cultures released significantly more leptin than
controls.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that PEMF exposure is responsible for metabolic
physiological balance effects obtained in ADSCs cultures originating from adult
animals on HF diet.
EOF
BACKGROUND & AIMS: A common G-to-A transition located 75 base pairs upstream
(rs670) from transcription start site of the APOA1 gene has been related with
some metabolic parameters. Our aim was to analyze the effects of rs670 APOA1 gene
polymorphism on lipid profile and metabolic changes after two different
hypocaloric diets.
METHODS: 282 obese subjects were randomly allocated during 12 weeks (Diet HF -
high fat diet vs. Diet LF - low fat diet). Anthropometric and biochemical status 
were evaluated.
RESULTS: Body mass index, weight, fat mass, waist circumference, systolic blood
pressure, leptin levels and waist circumference decreased in all patients in
average after both diets. In A allele carriers after 12 weeks with both diets,
insulin levels (Delta diet HF: -5.3 + 1.2 UI/L; P = 0.02 and Delta diet LF:
-5.8 + 1.3 UI/L; P = 0.02) and HOMA-IR (Delta diet HF: -2.9 + 0.8 units; P = 0.01
and Delta diet LF: -2.2 + 0.9 units; P = 0.03) improved in a significant way.
With the low fat diet, A allele carriers showed a statistical improvement in
HDL-cholesterol levels (Delta: 4 + 1 mg/dl; P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed the association of rs670 ApoA1 polymorphism with a 
decrease of insulin resistance induced by both diets and provided additional
evidence on HDL-cholesterol increase after a LF hypocaloric diet in A allele
carriers.
EOF
Recent transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomics studies have highlighted an
abnormal cerebral glucose and energy metabolism as one of the potential
pathophysiological mechanisms of schizophrenia. This raises the possibility that 
a metabolically-based intervention might have therapeutic value in the management
of schizophrenia, a notion supported by our recent results that a low
carbohydrate/high-fat therapeutic ketogenic diet (KD) prevented a variety of
behavioural abnormalities induced by pharmacological inhibition of NMDA glutamate
receptors. Here we asked if the beneficial effects of KD can be generalised to
impaired prepulse inhibition of startle (PPI), a translationally validated
endophenotype of schizophrenia, in a pharmacological model in mice. Furthermore, 
we addressed the issue of whether the effect of KD is linked to the
calorie-restricted state typical of the initial phase of KD. We fed male C57BL/6 
mice a KD for 7 weeks and tested PPI at 3 and 7 weeks, in the presence and
absence of a significant digestible energy deficit, respectively. We used an NMDA
receptor hypo-function model of schizophrenia induced by acute injection of
dizocilpine (MK-801). We found that KD effectively prevented MK-801-induced PPI
impairments at both 3 and 7 weeks, irrespective of the presence or absence of
digestible energy deficit. Furthermore, there was a lack of correlation between
PPI and body weight changes. These results support the efficacy of the
therapeutic KD in a translational model of schizophrenia and furthermore provide 
evidence against the role of calorie restriction in its mechanism of action.
EOF
Little evidence showed the interplay between tea and diet in the regulation of
trace metal. Here, we examined the effects of green tea polyphenols (GTPs) on the
level of trace elements (TEs) in rats on food restriction or high-fat diet.
Thirty-six rats (Wistar, male) were randomly divided into 6 groups and fed on
standard diet, food restriction and high-fat diet with or without GTPs (200 mg/kg
bw/day) supplementation, respectively. Levels of vanadium (V), manganese (Mn),
iron (Fe), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), selenium (Se), molybdenum (Mo) and cobalt (Co)
in feed, whole blood, femur and urine were measured by inductively coupled plasma
mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Blood glucose, total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides 
(TG), high and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C, HDL-C) in serum were
determined. Decreased daily intakes of TEs were observed in rats on food
restriction and high-fat diet. Decreased whole blood level of Zn, femur level of 
Co and increase urinary excretion of Se were observed in rats fed on high-fat
diet. GTPs altered the whole blood level of several TEs in rats on food
restriction (V, Zn, Co) or high-fat diet (V, Se), respectively, but not in rats
fed on standard diet. The level of several TEs in femur and the daily urinary
excretion of V and Mo were altered by GTPs in rats on all of the three diets. In 
addition, rats fed on high-fat diet developed dyslipidemia, which was ameliorated
by GTPs. The data indicated that diet status played a role in the effects of GTPs
on TEs and lipid metabolism, and trace elements may play a role in the modulation
of lipid metabolic disturbances by high-fat diet and GTPs.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Diabetic nephropathy is one of the most common and serious
complications of diabetes mellitus.
HYPOTHESIS/PURPOSE: The present study aimed to investigate the effects of
protodioscin on renal damage in high-fat diet-fed and streptozotocin-induced
diabetic rats.
METHODS: After 4 weeks of feeding a high-fat diet, male Sprague-Dawley rats were 
injected 35 mg/kg streptozotocin intraperitoneally. The diabetic rats were
divided into 4 groups, and treated orally with carboxymethylcellulose sodium,
metformin, or protodioscin (20 or 40 mg/kg). After 12 weeks of treatment, blood, 
urine, and renal tissue were collected for biochemical and histological
examination.
RESULTS: Protodioscin significantly reduced the levels of blood glucose, serum
creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen, and also the excretion of urinary protein
and albumin in diabetic rats. Histological examinations showed that protodioscin 
ameliorated the diabetes-induced glomerular and tubular pathological changes.
Furthermore, protodioscin significantly reduced the renal concentrations of total
cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids, phospholipids, and TNF-α.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that protodioscin has ameliorative effects on 
diabetic nephropathy.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Although diabetic retinopathy (DR) has long been considered as a
microvascular disorder, mounting evidence suggests that diabetic retinal
neurodegeneration, in particular synaptic loss and dysfunction of retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs) may precede retinal microvascular changes. Key molecules
involved in this process remain poorly defined. The microtubule-associated
protein tau is a critical mediator of neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD)
and other neurodegenerative diseases. However, the effect of tau, if any, in the 
context of diabetes-induced retinal neurodegeneration has yet to be ascertained. 
Here, we investigate the changes and putative roles of endogeneous tau in
diabetic retinal neurodegeneration.
METHODS: To this aim, we combine clinically used electrophysiological techniques,
i.e. pattern electroretinogram and visual evoked potential, and molecular
analyses in a well characterized high-fat diet (HFD)-induced mouse diabetes model
in vivo and primary retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in vitro.
RESULTS: We demonstrate for the first time that tau hyperphosphorylation via
GSK3β activation causes vision deficits and synapse loss of RGCs in HFD-induced
DR, which precedes retinal microvasculopathy and RGCs apoptosis. Moreover,
intravitreal administration of an siRNA targeting to tau or a specific inhibitor 
of GSK3β reverses synapse loss and restores visual function of RGCs by
attenuating tau hyperphosphorylation within a certain time frame of DR. The
cellular mechanisms by which hyperphosphorylated tau induces synapse loss of RGCs
upon glucolipotoxicity include i) destabilizing microtubule tracks and impairing 
microtubule-dependent synaptic targeting of cargoes such as mRNA and
mitochondria; ii) disrupting synaptic energy production through mitochondria in a
GSK3β-dependent manner.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study proposes mild retinal tauopathy as a new
pathophysiological model for DR and tau as a novel therapeutic target to counter 
diabetic RGCs neurodegeneration occurring before retinal vasculature
abnormalities.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The association between milk and dairy intake and the incidence of
cardiometabolic diseases, cancer and mortality has been evaluated in many
studies, but these studies have had conflicting results with no clear conclusion 
on causal or confounding associations. The present study aims to further address 
this association by cross-sectional and longitudinal evaluation of the
associations between exposure to various types of dairy products and metabolic
risk markers among inhabitants in northern Sweden while taking other lifestyle
factors into account.
METHODS: Respondents in the Västerbotten Intervention Programme with complete and
plausible diet data between 1991 and 2016 were included, yielding 124,934
observations from 90,512 unique subjects. For longitudinal analysis, 27,682
participants with a visit 8-12 years after the first visit were identified. All
participants completed a validated Food Frequency Questionnaire. Metabolic risk
markers, including body mass index (BMI), blood pressure, serum (S) cholesterol
and triglycerides, and blood glucose, were measured. Participants were
categorized into quintiles by intake of dairy products, and risk (odds ratios,
OR) of undesirable levels of metabolic risk markers was assessed in multivariable
logistic regression analyses. In longitudinal analyses, intake quintiles were
related to desirable levels of metabolic risk markers at both visits or
deterioration at follow-up using Cox regression analyses.
RESULTS: The OR of being classified with an undesirable BMI decreased with
increasing quintiles of total dairy, cheese and butter intake but increased with 
increasing non-fermented milk intake. The OR of being classified with an
undesirable S-cholesterol level increased with increasing intake of total dairy, 
butter and high fat (3%) non-fermented milk, whereas an undesirable
S-triglyceride level was inversely associated with cheese and butter intake in
women. In longitudinal analyses, increasing butter intake was associated with
deterioration of S-cholesterol and blood glucose levels, whereas increasing
cheese intake was associated with a lower risk of deterioration of
S-triglycerides.
CONCLUSIONS: Confounding factors likely contribute to the demonstrated
association between dairy intake and mortality, and other medical conditions and 
analyses should be stratified by dairy type.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is defined as the presence of central
obesity plus any two of the following markers: high triglycerides (> 150 mg/dl), 
low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol < 40 mg/dl in men and < 50 mg/dl
in women, hypertension (blood pressure > 130/85 mmHg or use of antihypertensive
medication), high fasting blood glucose (> 100 mg/dl or use of treatment for
diabetes mellitus). Since recently, metabolic syndrome and obesity have become
emerging problems of both low and middle income countries, although they have
been the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in high income countries for
the past decades. It has been indicated that the international anthropometric
cut-off for detecting obesity is not appropriate for Ethiopians. This study
developed optimal cut off values for anthropometric indicators of obesity and
markers of metabolic syndrome for Ethiopian adults to enhance preventive
interventions.
METHODS: A total of 704 employees of Jimma University were randomly selected
using their payroll as a sampling frame. Data on socio-demographic,
anthropometry, clinical and blood samples were collected from February to April
2015. Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve analyses were used to determine
optimal anthropometric cut-off values for obesity and markers of the metabolic
syndrome. WHO indicators of obesity based on body fat percent (> 25% for males
and > 35% for females) were used as binary classifiers for developing
anthropometric cut-offs. Optimal cut-off values were presented using sensitivity,
specificity and area under the curve.
RESULTS: The optimal cut-off for obesity using body mass index was 22.2 k/m2 for 
males and 24.5 kg/m2 for females. Similarly, the optimal waist circumference
cut-off for obesity was 83.7 cm for males and 78.0 cm for females. The cut-off
values for detecting obesity using waist to hip ratio and waist to height ratio
were: WHR (0.88) and WHtR (0.49) for males, while they were 0.82 and 0.50 for
females, respectively. Anthropometric cut-off values for markers of metabolic
syndrome were lower compared to the international values. For females, the
optimal BMI cut-offs for metabolic syndrome markers ranged from 24.8 kg/m2
(triglycerides) to 26.8 kg/m2 (fasting blood sugar). For WC the optimal cut-off
ranged from of 82.1 cm (triglyceride) to 96.0 cm(HDL); while for WHtR the optimal
values varied from 0.47(HDL) to 0.56(fasting blood sugar). Likewise, the optimal 
cut-offs of WHR for markers of metabolic syndrome ranged from 0.78(fasting blood 
sugar) to 0.89(HDL and blood pressure). For males, the optimal BMI cut-offs for
metabolic syndrome markers ranged from 21.0 kg/m2 (HDL) to 23.5 kg/m2 (blood
pressure). For WC, the optimal cut-off ranged from 85.3 cm (triglyceride) to
96.0 cm(fasting blood sugar); while for WHtR the optimal values varied from
0.47(BP, FBS and HDL) to 0.53(Triglyceride). Similarly, the optimal cut-offs of
WHR form markers of metabolic syndrome ranged from 0.86(blood pressure) to
0.95(fasting blood sugar).
CONCLUSION: The optimal anthropometric cut-offs for obesity and markers of
metabolic syndrome in Ethiopian adults are lower than the international values.
The findings imply that the international cut-off for WC, WHtR, WHR and BMI
underestimate obesity and metabolic syndrome markers among Ethiopian adults,
which should be considered in developing intervention strategies. It is
recommended to use the new cut-offs for public health interventions to curb the
increasing magnitude of obesity and associated metabolic syndrome and diet
related non-communicable diseases in Ethiopia.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: Excessive consumption of high fat and high sugar (HFHS) diets alters 
reward processing, behaviour, and changes gut microbiota profiles. Previous
studies in gnotobiotic mice also provide evidence that these gut microorganisms
may influence social behaviour. To further investigate these interactions, we
examined the impact of the intermittent access to a HFHS diet on social
behaviour, gene expression and microbiota composition in adolescent rats.
METHODS: Male rats were permitted intermittent daily access (2 h / day) to a
palatable HFHS chow diet for 28 days across adolescence. Social interaction,
social memory and novel object recognition were assessed during this period.
Following testing, RT-PCR was conducted on hippocampal and prefrontal cortex
(PFC) samples. 16S ribosomal RNA amplicon sequencing was used for identification 
and relative quantification of bacterial taxa in faecal samples.
RESULTS: We observed reduced social interaction behaviours, impaired social
memory and novel object recognition in HFHS diet rats compared to chow controls. 
RT-PCR revealed reduced levels of monoamine oxidase A (Maoa),
catechol-O-methyltransferase (Comt) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) 
mRNA in the PFC of HFHS diet rats. Faecal microbiota analysis demonstrated that
the relative abundance of a number of specific bacterial taxa differed
significantly between the two diet groups, in particular, Lachnospiraceae and
Ruminoccoceae bacteria.
DISCUSSION: Intermittent HFHS diet consumption evoked physiological changes to
the brain, particularly expression of mRNA associated with reward and
neuroplasticity, and gut microbiome. These changes may underpin the observed
alterations to social behaviours.
EOF
Fetal placental macrophages and microglia (resident brain macrophages) have a
common origin in the fetal yolk sac. Yolk-sac-derived macrophages comprise the
permanent pool of brain microglia throughout an individual's lifetime.
Inappropriate fetal microglial priming may therefore have lifelong
neurodevelopmental consequences, but direct evaluation of microglial function in 
a living fetus or neonate is impossible. We sought to test the hypothesis that
maternal obesity would prime both placental macrophages and fetal brain microglia
to overrespond to an immune challenge, thus providing a window into microglial
function using placental cells. Obesity was induced in C57BL/6 J mice using a 60%
high-fat diet. On embryonic day 17.5, fetal brain microglia and corresponding
CD11b + placental cells were isolated from fresh tissue. Cells were treated with 
media or lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) production
by stimulated and unstimulated cells was quantified via ELISA. We demonstrate for
the first time that the proinflammatory cytokine production of CD11b + placental 
cells is strongly correlated with that of brain microglia (Spearman's ρ = 0.73,
p = 0.002) in the setting of maternal obesity. Maternal obesity-exposed
CD11b + cells had an exaggerated response to LPS compared to controls, with a
5.1-fold increase in TNF-α production in placentas (p = 0.003) and 3.8-fold
increase in TNF-α production in brains (p = 0.002). In sex-stratified analyses,
only male obesity-exposed brains and placentas had significant increase in TNF-α 
production in response to LPS. Taken together, these data suggest that maternal
obesity primes both placental macrophages and fetal brain microglia to
overproduce a proinflammatory cytokine in response to immune challenge. Male
brain and placental immune response is more marked than female in this setting.
Given that fetal microglial priming may impact neuroimmune function throughout
the lifespan, these data could provide insight into the male predominance of
certain neurodevelopmental morbidities linked to maternal obesity, including
cognitive dysfunction, autism spectrum disorder, and ADHD. Placental CD11b+
macrophages may have the potential to serve as an accessible biomarker of
aberrant fetal brain immune activation in maternal obesity. This finding may have
broader implications for assaying the impact of other maternal exposures on fetal
brain development.
EOF
INTRODUCTION: Melanocortin 4 receptor-deficient (MC4R-KO) mice fed a high-fat
diet (HFD) develop liver pathology similar to human nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 
(NASH). However, although liver histology and blood biochemistry have been
reported, hepatic function has not been evaluated. In the present study, we
evaluated hepatic function in MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD using dynamic
contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) with
gadolinium‑ethoxybenzyl‑diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Wild type (WT) mice and MC4R-KO mice were fed a standard
diet (SD) or an HFD for 20 weeks. The hepatic signal intensity was obtained from 
DCE-MRI images, and relative enhancement (RE), the time to maximum RE (Tmax), and
the half-life of RE elimination (T1/2) were calculated. Histopathological
analysis was then performed.
RESULTS: Histological analysis with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity
score (NAS) revealed that MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD achieved the NAS of 5. There
was moderate fibrosis in MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD. DCE-MRI with Gd-EOB-DTPA showed
that Tmax and T1/2 were significantly longer in MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD compared 
with wild type (WT) mice (Tmax, WT, 3.9 ± 0.4 min; MC4R-KO, 7.4 ± 1.5 min; T1/2, 
WT, 23.7 ± 1.9 min; MC4R-KO, 62.5 ± 18.5 min). Tmax and T1/2 were significantly
correlated with histopathologic score (steatosis vs. Tmax, rho = 0.48, P = 0.04; 
steatosis vs. T1/2, rho = 0.50, P = 0.03; inflammation vs. Tmax, rho = 0.55,
P = 0.02; inflammation vs. T1/2, rho = 0.61, P < 0.01; ballooning vs. T1/2,
rho = 0.51, P = 0.03;fibrosis vs Tmax, rho = 0.72, P < 0.01; fibrosis vs T1/2,
rho = 0.75, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD developed obesity and NASH. The liver
kinetics of Gd-EOB-DTPA were significantly different in MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD
from WT mice, and correlated with the histopathologic score. These results
suggest that MC4R-KO mice fed an HFD mimic the hepatic pathology and liver
function of human NASH, and therefore might be useful for the study of hepatic
dysfunction during the fibrotic stage of NASH.
EOF
Fucosylated chondroitin sulfate from Isostichopus badionotus (fCS-Ib) is a kind
of sulfated polysaccharides with well-repeated structure. In our former
publications, fCS-Ib has been reported to be a functional food ingredient with
hypoglycemic and antilipemic activities. However, there is no systematic study to
investigate the effects of fCS-Ib on metabolic syndromes. In the present study,
C57BL/6 mice fed on a high-fat and high sucrose diet (HFSD) for 6 weeks was used 
to cause metabolic syndromes. The final results showed that fCS-Ib alleviated
obesity, hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, inflammation, liver steatosis, and
adipocyte hypertrophy caused by HFSD. Meanwhile, fCS-Ib showed powerful effects
on moderating gut microbiota dysbiosis in the HFSD-fed mice. Supplement of fCS-Ib
could reduce ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes by decreasing abundance of
Lachnospiraceae and Allobaculum while increasing abundance of Porphyromonadaceae,
Barnesiella, and Bacteroides. Our results showed that fCS-Ib could be further
developed as a potential pharmaceutical agent to prevent metabolic syndromes and 
gut microbiota dysbiosis.
EOF
Hippocampal insulin resistance is the key factor in cognitive deficits. The
obesity induces chronic inflammation and the inflammation molecules suppressors
of cytokine signaling3 (SOCS3) and galectin-3 directly impair the insulin
signaling. The anti-inflammation properties of purple sweet potato color (PSPC)
prompted us to investigate the effect of PSPC on cognitive impairment associated 
with obesity. 60 C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into four groups: normal,
high fat diets (HFD), HFD+PSPC and PSPC. The mice were fed with the HFD or normal
diet for 32 weeks. The PSPC (500 mg/kg/day) was administered via oral gavage from
21 to 32 weeks. The results showed the PSPC rectified the abnormal metabolism
indexes induced by HFD, including ameliorated obesity, decreased the
concentration of fasting blood glucose and improved the glucose tolerance. The
Morris water maze test showed the PSPC alleviated the cognitive impairment in HFD
mice. The PSPC decreased the expression of Iba1, tumor necrosis factor-α,
interleukin-1β, SOCS3 and galectin-3 in hippocampus of HFD mice. The insulin
signaling molecules including the p-IRS1 (Tyr608), PI3K p110α and p-AKT (Ser473) 
were detected and the PSPC treatment improved the insulin resistance in
hippocampus of HFD mice. Furthermore, the PSPC increased Bcl-2, diminished the
Bak and the cleaved-caspase3 in HFD mice hippocampus. These findings indicated
that PSPC could be a potential treatment to improve the cognitive impairment
associated with obesity.
EOF
BACKGROUND: We tested the hypothesis that vitamin E may protect against
pre-diabetes-induced aortic injury (aortopathy), and exercise can augment the
action of vitamin E.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Rats were either fed with a high fat and fructose diet
(HFD) (model group) or a standard laboratory chow (control group) for 15 weeks
before being sacrificed. The three protective groups were treated with vitamin E 
(HFD + Vit E), swimming exercises (HFD + Ex), and vitamin E plus swimming
exercises (HFD + VitE + Ex), respectively.
RESULTS: Aortopathy was developed in the model group as demonstrated by
substantial tissue ultrastructural alterations, which were partially protected by
vitamin E and effectively protected with vitamin E plus swim exercise. Also,
swimming exercises significantly (p < .05) increased the modulatory effects of
vitamin E on dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, blood pressure, oxidative stress, 
inflammation, leptin, and adiponectin, except coagulation and thrombosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Swim exercise augments the protective effects of vitamin E in a
pre-diabetic animal model.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the impacts of periodontitis on the
visceral weight and weight percentage of obese animal models.
METHODS: A total of 64 C57BL/6J mice were divided into the following diet groups:
high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=36), which was fed with high-fat diet to induce
obesity, and low-fat diet (LFD) group (n=28), which was fed with low-fat diet as 
the control. After 16 weeks on diet, each diet group was divided into
periodontitis (P) and control (C) groups. The P groups were induced for
periodontitis by ligation with Porphyromonas gingivalis-adhered silk for 5 or 10 
days, and the C groups were sham-ligated as the control. Visceral organs were
resected and weighed. The organ weight percentage was calculated.
RESULTS: Compared with the LFD group, the HFD group significantly upregulated the
weight and weight percentage of visceral adipose tissue and spleen (P<0.05),
upregulated the weight of liver and kidney (P<0.05), and downregulated the weight
percentage of liver and kidney (P<0.01). In the HFD group, the weight and weight 
percentage of spleen were downregulated in the P group (P<0.05), but were
upregulated in the 10-day group compared with the 5-day group (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Periodontitis can affect the general morphology of the viscera
(especially spleen) in obese animal models. Pathological indications in terms of 
immunometabolism might be present in the correlation between obesity and
periodontitis.
EOF
The incidence of obesity has been increasing dramatically worldwide over the past
decades, thus requiring novel and effective therapeutic approaches. OBEX is an
oral nutritional supplement composed of antioxidants with antiobesity activity.
The effects of OBEX have been tested in vivo and in vitro. In vivo, OBEX reduces 
weight gain by decreasing adiposity gain and increasing energy expenditure in
high fat diet-fed mice through the activation of thermogenesis in brown adipose
tissue (BAT) independent of eating behaviors. In vitro analysis with 3T3-F442A
cells revealed anti-proliferative and anti-differentiation effects of OBEX. In
addition, OBEX induced a clear reduction of the lipid load in mature adipocytes
obtained from 3T3-F442A cells. Overall, our findings suggest that OBEX has a
protective effect against an obesogenic environment.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The role of vitamin D in obesity and diabetes is debated. Obese
and/or diabetic patients have elevated levels of free fatty acids, increased
susceptibility to gastrointestinal symptoms and are suggested to have altered
vitamin D balance. The enteric nervous system is pivotal in regulating
gastrointestinal activity and high fat diet (HFD) has been shown to cause loss of
enteric neurons in ileum and colon. This study investigates the effect of vitamin
D on HFD- and palmitic acid-induced enteric neuronal loss in vivo and in vitro.
METHODS: Mice were fed either a normal diet (ND) or HFD supplemented with varying
levels of vitamin D (from 0x to 20x normal vitamin D level) for 19 weeks. Ileum
and colon were analyzed for neuronal numbers and remodeling. Primary cultures of 
myenteric neurons from mouse small intestine were treated with palmitic acid
(4x10-4M) and/or 1α,25-hydroxy-vitamin D3 (VD, 10-11- 10-7M) with or without
modulators of lipid metabolism and VD pathways. Cultures were analyzed by
immunocyto- and histochemical methods.
RESULTS: Vitamin D supplementation had no effect on enteric neuronal survival in 
the ND group. HFD caused substantial loss of myenteric neurons in ileum and
colon. Vitamin D supplementation between 0-2x normal had no effect on HFD-induced
neuronal loss. Supplementation with 20x normal, prevented the HFD-induced
neuronal loss. In vitro supplementation of VD prevented the palmitic acid-induced
neuronal loss. The VD receptor (VDR) was not identified in enteric neurons.
Enteric glia expressed the alternative VD receptor, protein disulphide isomerase 
family A member 3 (PDIA3), but PDIA3 was not found to mediate the VD response in 
vitro. Inhibition of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and
immune neutralization of isocitrate lyase prevented the VD mediated
neuroprotection to palmitic acid exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Results show that VD protect enteric neurons against HFD and
palmitic acid induced neuronal loss. The mechanism behind is suggested to be
through activation of PPARγ leading to improved neuronal peroxisome function and 
metabolism of neuronal lipid intermediates.
EOF
Obesity is caused by the expansion of white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores
excess triacylglycerol (TG), this can lead to disorders including type 2
diabetes, atherosclerosis, metabolic diseases. Ishige okamurae extract (IOE) is
prepared from a brown alga and has anti-oxidative properties. We investigated the
detailed mechanisms of the anti-obesity activity of IOE. Treatment with IOE
blocked lipid accumulation by reducing expression of key adipogenic transcription
factors, such as CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBPα) and peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), in 3T3-L1 cells. Administration of
IOE to high fat diet (HFD)-fed mice inhibited body and WAT mass gain, attenuated 
fasting hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia. The obesity suppression was associated
with reductions in expression of adipogenic proteins, such as C/EBPα and PPARγ,
increases in expression of lipolytic enzymes, such as adipose triglyceride lipase
(ATGL) and hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), in WAT of HFD-fed mice. In addition,
IOE-treated mice had lower hepatic TG content, associated with lower protein
expression of lipogenic genes, such as diglyceride acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1),
sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1), fatty acid synthase (FAS). 
IOE treatment also reduced serum free fatty acid concentration, probably through 
the upregulation of β-oxidation genes, suggested by increases in AMPKα and CPT1
expression in WAT and liver. In summary, IOE ameliorates HFD-induced obesity and 
its related metabolic disease, hepatic steatosis, by regulating multiple
pathways.
EOF
The effects of allulose and two probiotic species on diet-induced obese (DIO)
mice were investigated. Lactobacillus sakei LS03 (10⁸ cfu/day) and Leuconostoc
kimchii GJ2 (10⁸ cfu/day) were used as probiotics, and allulose (AL) as a
prebiotic. The synergistic effect of prebiotics and probiotics in improving
obesity was evaluated. Orally fed Lactobacillus sakei LS03 (LS) or Leuconostoc
kimchii GJ2 (GJ), significantly decreased hepatic triglyceride (TG) and fatty
acid (FA) compared to the high-fat diet (HFD) control. AL markedly decreased
visceral adiposity and pro-inflammatory adipokines (leptin and resistin) and
cytokines (IL-6 and IL-1β) as well as hepatic TG and FA. In addition, AL exerted 
synergic effects with probiotics (LS and/or GJ) on the reduction of visceral
white adipose tissue (WAT), associated with a decreased leptin: adiponectin
ratio. There was no significant differences between the AL-SL and AL group,
allulose and GJ combination (AL-GJ) was more effective than allulose in improving
dyslipidemia, and decreasing WAT weight and hepatic FA, suggesting allulose may
act as a favorable prebiotic for GJ supplement than LS. Combination of allulose
with LS and GJ supplementation (AL-LSGJ) was the most effective for improving
obesity related complications among the synbiotics groups containing allulose. In
conclusion, this study demonstrated that the synbiotic mixture with allulose was 
more effective in suppressing diet-induced obese (DIO) and its complications via 
the regulation of lipid metabolism, than the probiotics or allulose alone,
suggesting allulose may act as a prebiotic for the two probiotics tested in the
study. This new synbiotic mixture with allulose may help ameliorate the
deleterious effects of diet-induced obesity and contribute to the growth of the
food industry.
EOF
Chitosan oligosaccharides (COS) display various biological activities. In this
study, we aimed to explore the preventive effects of COS on glucolipid metabolism
disorder using palmitic acid (PA)-induced HepG2 cells and high-fat diet (HFD)-fed
C57BL/6J mice as experimental models in vitro and in vivo, respectively. The
results showed that COS pretreatment for 12 h significantly ameliorated lipid
accumulation in HepG2 cells exposed to PA for 24 h, accompanied by a reversing of
the upregulated mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-6, MCP-1, TNF-α)
and glucolipid metabolism-related regulators (SCD-1, ACC1, PCK1-α). In addition, 
COS treatment alleviated glucolipid metabolism disorder in mice fed with HFD for 
five months, including reduction in body weight and fasting glucose, restoration 
of intraperitoneal glucose tolerance, and suppression of overexpression of
proinflammatory cytokines and glucolipid metabolism-related regulators.
Furthermore, our study found that COS pretreatment significantly reversed the
downregulation of PPARγ at transcriptional and translational levels in both
PA-induced HepG2 cells and liver tissues of HFD-fed mice. In summary, the study
suggests that COS can improve glucolipid metabolism disorder by suppressing
inflammation and upregulating PPARγ expression. This indicates a novel
application of COS in preventing and treating glucolipid metabolism-related
diseases.
EOF
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass, RYGB, is the most effective strategy
to control body weight in morbid obesity. RYGB leads to rapid improvement of
glycemic status and weight loss, which are largely attributed to the alteration
of gastrointestinal hormones including ghrelin. The current study examined
potential mechanisms of altered ghrelin synthesis after RYGB.
METHODS: Gastric mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling, ghrelin
synthesis and secretion were determined in lean or obese male mice with or
without RYGB operation, as well as in obese patients pre- and post-RYGB surgery. 
Ghrelin expression and mTOR signaling were investigated by western blotting and
immunohistochemistry. Ghrelin mRNA levels were detected by real-time PCR. Plasma 
ghrelin was measured by enzyme immunoassay.
RESULTS: mTOR activity in the gastric fundus was significantly lower than in the 
forestomachs. Both of them were decreased after 24h fasting. A significant
negative correlation was found between gastric levels of phospho-S6 (phospho-S6
ribosomal protein) and proghrelin during changes of energy status. mTOR activity 
was activated, whereas ghrelin expression was inhibited by Roux-en-Y Gastric
Bypass in both rodents and human beings. Increment of ghrelin synthesis and
decline of mTOR signaling induced by rapamycin were significantly reversed by
RYGB in both lean and obese mice. Administration of Ad-S6K1 (adenovirus-mediated 
p70 ribosomal protein subunit 6 kinase 1) from tail vein suppressed the
expression of ghrelin in RYGB-operated mice relative to control animals.
CONCLUSION: mTOR is therefore a gastric fuel sensor whose activity is linked to
the regulation of ghrelin after Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass.
EOF
The impact of food restriction (FR) during 56 days on serum levels of cytokines
in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) or high-carbohydrate diet (HCD) were evaluated.
The amount of food was reduced 50% for HFD-FR and HCD-FR groups compared to mice 
receiving free access to HFD (HFD group) or HCD (HCD group). We quantified the
serum levels of basic fibroblast growth factor, granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor, inducible protein 10, interferon γ, interleukin 1α
(IL-1α), IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-17, keratinocyte 
chemoattractant, macrophage inflammatory protein-1α, monocyte chemotactic protein
1, monokine induced by IFN-γ, and tumor necrosis factor α. Only IL-12 levels were
lower (P<0.05), for both HFD-FR (HFD-FR vs HFD) and HCD-FR (HCD-FR vs HCD).
Therefore, IL-12 levels could be considered a biological marker of the beneficial
effects of FR.
EOF
Insulin resistance (IR) continues to pose a major threat to public health due to 
its role in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome and its ever-increasing
prevalence on a global scale. The aim of the current study was to investigate the
efficacy of Anxa2 in obesity-induced IR through the mediation of the NF-κB
signaling pathway. Microarray analysis was performed to screen differentially
expressed genes associated with obesity. To verify whether Anxa2 was
differentially expressed in IR triggered by obesity, IR mouse models were
established in connection with a high-fat diet (HFD). In the mouse IR model, the 
role of differentially expressed Anxa2 in glycometabolism and IR was subsequently
detected. To investigate the effect of Anxa2 on IR and its correlation with
inflammation, a palmitic acid (PA)-induced IR cell model was established, with
the relationship between Anxa2 and the NF-κB signaling pathway investigated
accordingly. Anxa2 was determined to be highly expressed in IR. Silencing Anxa2
was shown to inhibit IR triggered by obesity. When Anxa2 was knocked down,
elevated expression of phosphorylated insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), IRS1
and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor coactivator-1a, and glucose
tolerance and insulin sensitivity along with 2-deoxy-d-glucose uptake was
detected, whereas decreased expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3,
IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, and p50 was observed. Taken together, the current study
ultimately demonstrated that Anxa2 may be a novel drug strategy for IR
disruption, indicating that Anxa2 gene silencing is capable of alleviating PA or 
HFD-induced IR and inflammation through its negative regulatory role in the
process of p50 nuclear translocation of the NF-κB signaling pathway.
EOF
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) has surpassed chronic glomerulonephritis as the
leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Previously, we showed that early
growth response protein 1 (Egr1) plays a key role in DKD by enhancing mesangial
cell proliferation and extracellular matrix (ECM) production. The long noncoding 
RNA Arid2-IR has been identified as a Smad3-associated lncRNA in unilateral
ureteral obstructive (UUO) kidney disease. However, the effect of Egr1 on
Arid2-IR in the development of DKD is still unknown. In this study, we found that
Arid2-IR was increased in high-fat diet (HFD)-and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced
type 2 diabetes mice and in mouse mesangial cells cultured with high glucose to
mimic diabetes. Knockdown of Arid2-IR in mouse mesangial cells reduced the high
expression of Col1a1 and α-SMA induced by high glucose. Furthermore, Arid2-IR
expression changed the increased expression of Col1a1 and α-SMA caused by
overexpression of Egr1. Overall, these data suggest that increased Arid2-IR
likely contributes to ECM production in DKD and that Egr1 promotes ECM production
in DKD partly by upregulating Arid2-IR. Thus, Arid2-IR may be a new target in the
treatment of diabetic kidney disease.
EOF
The naturally occurring quassinoid compound brusatol improves the survival of
insulin-producing cells when exposed to the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β and
IFN-γ in vitro. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether brusatol 
also promotes beneficial effects in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and if so, to
study the mechanisms by which brusatol acts. In vivo, we observed that the
impaired glucose tolerance of HFD-fed male C57BL/6 mice was counteracted by a 2
wk treatment with brusatol. Brusatol treatment improved both β-cell function and 
peripheral insulin sensitivity of HFD-fed mice. In vitro, brusatol inhibited
β-cell total protein and proinsulin biosynthesis, with an ED50 of ∼40 nM. In line
with this, brusatol blocked cytokine-induced iNOS protein expression via
inhibition of iNOS mRNA translation. Brusatol may have affected protein
synthesis, at least in part, via inhibition of eukaryotic initiation factor 5A
(eIF5A) hypusination, as eIF5A spermidine association and hypusination in RIN-5AH
cells was reduced in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The eIF5A hypusination
inhibitor GC7 promoted a similar effect. Both brusatol and GC7 protected rat
RIN-5AH cells against cytokine-induced cell death. Brusatol reduced eIF5A
hypusination and cytokine-induced cell death in EndoC-βH1 cells as well. Finally,
hypusinated eIF5A was reduced in vivo by brusatol in islet endocrine and
endothelial islet cells of mice fed a HFD. The results of the present study
suggest that brusatol improves glucose intolerance in mice fed a HFD, possibly by
inhibiting protein biosynthesis and eIF5A hypusination.-Turpaev, K.,
Krizhanovskii, C., Wang, X., Sargsyan, E., Bergsten, P., Welsh, N. The protein
synthesis inhibitor brusatol normalizes high-fat diet-induced glucose intolerance
in male C57BL/6 mice: role of translation factor eIF5A hypusination.
EOF
Dopamine (DA) can promote or inhibit consummatory and reward-related behaviors by
activating different receptor subtypes in the lateral hypothalamus and
perifornical area (LH/PF). Because orexin neurons are involved in reward and
localized in the LH/PF, DA may modulate these neurons to influence reward-related
behaviors. To determine the cellular mechanism underlying dopaminergic modulation
of orexin neurons, the effect of DA on excitatory transmission to these neurons
was investigated using in vitro electrophysiology on rat brain slices. We found
that low concentrations (0.1-1 µM) of DA increased evoked excitatory postsynaptic
current amplitude while decreasing paired-pulse ratio. In contrast, high
concentrations (10-100 µM) of DA did the opposite. The excitatory effect of low
DA was blocked by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390, whereas the inhibitory
effect of high DA was blocked by the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride. These
results indicate distinct roles of D1 and D2 receptors in bidirectional
presynaptic modulation of excitatory transmission. DA had stronger effects on
isolated synaptic activity than repetitive ones, suggesting that sensitivity to
dopaminergic modulation depends on the level of network activity. In orexin
neurons from high-fat diet-fed rats, a high concentration of DA was less
effective in suppressing repetitive synaptic activity compared with chow
controls. Therefore, in diet-induced obesity, intense synaptic inputs may
preferentially reach orexin neurons while intermittent signals are inhibited by
high DA levels. In summary, our study provides a cellular mechanism by which DA
may exert opposite behavioral effects in the LH/PF through bidirectional
modulation of orexin neurons via different DA receptors.
EOF
As biomaterial therapies emerge to address adipose tissue dysfunction that
underlies metabolic disease, the immune response to these systems must be
established. As a potential therapy, we are investigating resveratrol delivery
from porous poly(lactide-co-glycolide) scaffolds designed to integrate with
adipose tissue. Resveratrol was selected for its ability to protect mice and
primates from high fat diet and broad anti-inflammatory properties. Herein, we
report fabrication of scaffolds with high resveratrol loading that are stable and
active for up to one year. In vitro release profiles indicate that drug release
is biphasic with a burst release over three days followed by a plateau.
Surprisingly, we find that PLG scaffold implant into adipose tissue of mice
promotes an anti-inflammatory environment characterized by high arginase-1 and
low TNF-α and IL-6 compared to naïve unmanipulated fat. Resveratrol delivery from
the scaffold augments this anti-inflammatory environment by decreasing monocyte
and lymphocyte numbers at the implant site and increasing expression of IL-10 and
IL-13, cytokines that promote healthy adipose tissue. In terms of therapeutic
applications, implant of scaffolds designed to release resveratrol into the
visceral fat decreases MCP-1 expression in mice fed a high fat diet, a molecule
that drives both local and systemic inflammation during obesity. Taken together, 
resveratrol delivery to adipose tissue using poly(lactide-co-glycolide) scaffolds
is a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of adipose tissue
inflammation that drives metabolic disease.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a systemic disease that also
compromises the bone healing capacity. In healthy individuals, surface
modifications of dental implants are proven to increase bone response and implant
success. The aim of this study was to clarify if the surface modifications also
improve osseointegration in a setting with diabetes mellitus.
METHODS: T2DM was induced in 7 rats by a high-fat diet/low-dose streptozotocin
injection. All animals received a hydroxyapatite (HA) implant, a sandblasted and 
acid-etched (SLA) implant, and a standard machined titanium implant for control
in the tibia. After 4 weeks, thin-ground sections were produced, and the volume
of new bone formation (nBV/TV) and bone-to-implant contact (nB.I/Im.I) were
histomorphometrically analyzed.
RESULTS: Both surface modifications led to an increase of osseointegration
compared with the machined surface implant in rats with T2DM. nBV/TV was highest 
in the SLA implants, whereas nB.I/Im.I was highest in the HA group. Regardless of
the surface modification, a superordinate regional pattern of new bone formation 
over the length of the implant was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Implants with HA coating and SLA surface modifications seem to have 
the potential to increase osseointegration also in T2DM rats when compared with a
conventional machined surface.
EOF
Adipose tissue is the primary site of storage for excess energy as triglyceride
and it helps in synthesizing a number of biologically active compounds that
regulate metabolic homeostasis. Consumption of high dietary fat increases stored 
fat mass and is considered as a main risk factor for metabolic diseases.
Beta-sitosterol (β-sitosterol) is a plant sterol. It has the similar chemical
structure like cholesterol. Clinical and experimental studies have shown that
β-sitosterol has anti-diabetic, hypolipidemic, anti-cancer, anti-arthritic and
hepatoprotective role. However, effect of β-sitosterol on insulin signaling
molecules and glucose oxidation has not been explored. Hence in the present study
we aimed to discover the protective role of β-sitosterol on the expression of
insulin signaling molecules in the adipose tissue of high-fat diet and
sucrose-induced type-2 diabetic experimental rats. Effect dose of β-sitosterol
(20mg/kg b.wt, orally for 30 days) was given to high fat diet and sucrose-induced
type-2 diabetic rats to study its anti-diabetic activity. Results of the study
showed that the treatment with β-sitosterol to diabetes-induced rats normalized
the altered levels of blood glucose, serum insulin and testosterone, lipid
profile, oxidative stress markers, antioxidant enzymes, insulin receptor (IR) and
glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) proteins. Our present findings indicate that
β-sitosterol improves glycemic control through activation of IR and GLUT4 in the 
adipose tissue of high fat and sucrose-induced type-2 diabetic rats. Insilico
analysis also coincides with invivo results. Hence it is very clear that
β-sitosterol can act as potent antidiabetic agent.
EOF
Fatty acids are involved in the regulation of inflammatory responses in obesity. 
However, despite being the largest dietary fatty-acid class, effects of 18-carbon
fatty acids with different degrees of saturation on inflammatory, metabolic, and 
thermogenic markers have not been well studied. Therefore, the objective of this 
study was to test if diets with different 18-carbon fatty-acid profiles
differentially regulate inflammatory and metabolic genes. Male C57BL/6 mice were 
fed one of the four different diets: a control diet (CON) containing 5.6% kcal
fat from lard and 4.4% kcal fat from soybean oil (CON) or three high-fat diets
(HFD) containing 25% kcal fat from lard and 20% kcal fat from either shea butter 
oil (saturated fatty-acid-rich fat; shea butter [SHB]), olive oil
(monounsaturated fatty-acid-rich fat; olive oil [OO]), or soybean oil
(polyunsaturated fatty-acid-rich fat; soybean oil [SBO]) ad libitum for 4 weeks
with or without a terminal 4-h lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment. Compared to
CON, HFD-fed mice had higher weight gain and fat accumulation. The OO group had
the highest brown adipose tissue (BAT) mass while the SBO group had higher Il6
and lower Cpt1a expression in white adipose tissue (WAT) than other HFD groups.
Treatment with LPS upregulated expression of proinflammatory cytokines, and this 
was associated with downregulation of thermogenic gene expression. However, the
diets did not have differential effects on inflammatory response to LPS. These
data indicate that the saturation degree of 18-C fatty acids is not an important 
factor on response to LPS with regard to metabolic and inflammatory indicators.
EOF
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is a chronic metabolic disorder considered to be
the most predominant form of diabetes throughout the world. This study aimed to
investigate the possible effects of cinnamaldehyde (CIN) on insulin signaling
pathways in STZ-induced T2D rat model. T2D was originated by feeding rats with a 
high-fat diet (HFD) plus 25% fructose solution plus streptozotocin (STZ)
(35 mg/kg, i.p.). CIN effects were investigated on fasting blood glucose,
insulin, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), insulin tolerance test (ITT), liver 
biomarkers, lipid profile, oxidative stress biomarkers, serum advanced glycation 
end products (AGEs) and its receptors (RAGE) in the aorta, and histopathology of 
the liver and aorta. Additionally, the mRNA expression of hepatic insulin
signaling pathway genes, phosphorylated AKT (serine 473) (P-AKT ser473) level,
and aortic nitric oxide synthase3 (eNOS) and NADPH oxidase4 (NOX4) were
determined. CIN treatment for 30 days significantly decreased OGTT, ITT, fasting 
blood glucose, insulin, and HOMA-IR and increased HOMA-β index when compared to
diabetic rats. CIN also improved lipid profile and decreased serum alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity, serum AGEs,
and aortic RAGE. Additionally, CIN treatment significantly decreased hepatic
malondialdehyde (MDA), increased hepatic and aortic glutathione (GSH) and
superoxide dismutase (SOD), and decreased steatosis and inflammation observed in 
liver tissue of rats. Additionally, significant elevation in mRNA expression of
insulin receptor substrate1 (IRS1), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory
subunit1 (PI3K-P85 subunit), and AKT serine/threonine kinase2 (AKT2); increased
levels of P-AKT ser473 and aortic eNOS; and decrease in mRNA expression of NOX4
were detected in CIN-treated group when compared to diabetic group. This study
suggests antidiabetic and antioxidant effects of CIN probably through
upregulation of eNOS and IRS1/PI3K/AKT2 signaling pathway and alleviating AGEs,
RAGE, and NOX4 elevation.
EOF
Global human health has been compromised by high-fat diets. This study aimed to
investigate the relationship between a high-fat diet and parthenogenetic embryo
quality. Mice fed a high-fat or a normal diet was used as treated or control
groups, respectively. Estradiol (E2), total cholesterol (TC) and total
triglyceride (TG) were detected by Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA).
Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were collected from the mice in the treated and
control groups. The ultrastructure of COCs, the expression level of genes
involved in mitochondrial and nuclear functions in cumulus cells and oocytes
quality were evaluated with transmission electron microscopy, real-time
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and artificial parthenogenesis,
respectively. The results showed that the efficiency of parthenogenetic embryonic
development in vitro was significantly higher in the treated group than in the
control group (p < .05). The expression level of genes involved in mitochondrial 
function was lower in cumulus cells from the treated group than that from the
control group (p < .05). The estradiol and cholesterol level in the serum and the
expression level of P450 arom were higher in the treated group than the control
group (p < .05). The reactive oxygen species (ROS) level was higher in culumus
cells from the treated group than the control group, while the mitochondrial
membrane potential was lower in cumulus cells from the treated group (p < .05).
Accumulation of lipid droplets was only in cumulus but in oocyte, the results
demonstrated that mitochondrial functions were impaired by a high-fat diet, but
parthenogenetic embryonic development in vitro was improved, in controllable
range of damage for the body.
EOF
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is the underlying cause of some devastating diseases,
including type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. These diseases have been
associated with over-activation of the mechanistic Target of Rapamycin (mTOR)
pathway. This study utilizes a high fat diet (HFD) to induce MetS and to dissect 
the effects of a beneficial bacterium, L. johnsonii N6.2, and natural phenolics
on mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) expression compared to a reduced energy density diet
(REDD). HFD significantly elevated MetS markers in males, as noted through an
increase in weight, glucose levels, and triglyceride levels. Treatments were
effective in reducing mTORC1-activating phosphorylation of pAKT-T308 and
pAKT-S473 (p = 0.0012 and 0.0049, respectively) in HFD-fed females, with the
combined treatments of L. johnsonii and phytophenols reducing phosphorylation
below REDD-fed control levels, and significantly below HFD-fed control levels.
Meanwhile, diet was the significant factor influencing male mTORC1-activating
phosphorylation (p < 0.0001), as treatments were only effective in reducing
phosphorylation in REDD-fed animals. Downstream analysis of mTORC1 activated
genes phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (pgd) and phosphofructose kinase (pfk)
followed this similar trend, enforcing the significant effect sex has on a
treatments' ability to modulate diet induced abnormalities. Analyzing mTORC1
stimulators such as insulin, inflammatory cytokines, and tryptophan, revealed no 
significant differences among groups. These results indicate that the effects
observed on mTORC1 are a direct consequence of the treatments, and not exerted
indirectly via the modulation of stimuli. This study highlights the potential use
of commensal microorganisms and natural compounds in reducing the onset of
metabolic diseases through mTORC1.
EOF
Purpose: The present study is aimed to explore whether the aqueous extract of
Mori Folium (MF) exhibits bone protective effect by regulating calcium and redox 
homeostasis in diabetic rats, and to identify the signaling pathways involved in 
this process. Methods: Diabetic rats were established using high-sugar and
high-fat diet and streptozotocin (STZ) (30 mg/kg for 3 consecutive days). The
serum levels of osteocalcin (OC), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1),
tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), phosphorus (P), calcium (Ca),
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3], parathormone (PTH), advanced glycation
end products (AGEs), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and malondialdehyde (MDA), total
antioxidant capacity (TAC), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG), and
interleukin 6 (IL-6) were determined by ELISA or biochemical assays.
Histopathological alterations in the femurs were evaluated by the stainings of
hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) and alizarin red S. In addition, femoral strength was
detected by a three-point bending assay, bone microstructure was detected with
micro-computer tomography. Bone material properties were examined by
Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy. Furthermore, the expressions of IGF-1,
runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2), osteoprotegerin (OPG), receptor
activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL), cathepsin K, AGEs, receptor
of advanced glycation end products (RAGE), NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4), and nuclear
factor kappa-B (NF-κB) in the femurs and tibias, and the alterations in the
levels of calcium-binding protein-28k (CaBP-28k), transient receptor potential V6
(TRPV6), and vitamin D receptor (VDR) in the kidneys and duodenums were
determined by western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. Results: Treatment
of diabetic rats with MF aqueous extract induces an increase in the levels of OC 
and IGF-1 as well as a decrease in TRAP level in serum. MF treatment also
upregulates the expression of OPG, downregulates the expressions of AGEs, RAGE,
Nox4, NF-κB, and RANKL, which leads to improve bone microstructure and strength
exhibited by an increase in cortical area ratio, cortical thickness, and
trabecular area ratio as well as ultimate load, elastic modulus, and bending
stress in the femurs and tibias of diabetic rats. In addition, MF aqueous extract
preserves bone material properties by decreasing the ratio of fatty acid/collagen
and increasing the ratio of mineral/matrix in the femurs of diabetic rats.
Moreover, MF treatment increases the levels of P, Ca, and 1,25(OH)2D3, and
decreases the level of PTH in the serum, as well as upregulates the expressions
of TRPV6 and VDR in the duodenums and CaBP-28k in the kidneys of diabetic rats.
Additionally, MF has ability of rebuilding redox homeostasis and eliminating
inflammatory stress by increasing the levels of SOD and TAC as well as decreasing
the levels of IL-6, AGEs, MDA, and 8-OH-dG. Conclusions: MF treatment may improve
bone quality through maintenance of calcium homeostasis via regulating the
PTH/VDR/CaBP signaling, and elimination of oxidative stress via regulating the
AGEs/RAGE/Nox4/NF-κB signaling. These results may suggest the potential of MF in 
preventing the development of diabetic osteoporosis.
EOF
To determine the effects of diet, rats were placed on a standard diet (4% fat) or
on a modified Western (high-fat diet, HFD) diet (21% fat) at 43 days of age (DOA)
and administered methylnitrosourea (MNU) at 50 DOA. Rats were administered
effective (tamoxifen, vorozole, and Targretin) or ineffective (metformin and
Lipitor) chemopreventive agents either by daily gavage or in the diet beginning
at 57 DOA and continuing until sacrifice (190 DOA). Latency period of the tumors 
was determined by palpation, and multiplicity and cancer weights per rat were
determined at final sacrifice. Rats on the HFD versus standard diet had: (i) a 6%
increase in final body weights; (ii) significant decreases in tumor latency; and 
(iii) significant increases in final tumor multiplicity and average tumor weight.
Tamoxifen, vorozole, and Targretin were highly effective preventive agents,
whereas Lipitor and metformin were ineffective in rats on either diet. Serum was 
collected at 78 DOA and at sacrifice (190 DOA), and metabolomics were determined 
to identify the metabolite changes due to diets and effective agents. Rats given 
the HFD had increased levels of saturated free fatty acids (including myristate) 
and decreased levels of 2-aminooctanoate. Furthermore, rats on the HFD diet had
increased levels of 2-aminobutyrate and decreases in glycine markers previously
identified as indicators of prediabetes. Targretin increased long-chain
glycophospholipids (e.g., oleyl-linoleoyl-glycerophosphocholine) and decreased
primary bile acids (e.g., taurocholate). Tamoxifen increased
palmitoyl-linoleoyl-glycophosphocholine and decreased stearoyl-arachidonyl
glycophosphocholine. Finally, increased levels of methylated nucleotides
(5-methylcytidine) and decreased levels of urea cycle metabolites
(N-acetylcitrulline) were associated with the presence of mammary cancers.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which can promote lipid metabolism
disorders and steatohepatitis, contributes significantly to the pathogenesis of
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis is
considered to play a key role in ER stress. Matrine (Mat) has been applied for
the treatment of hepatitis B, but its effect on NAFLD is still unknown, and there
is no unified view of Mat on the regulation of ER stress in the previous
literature.
METHODS: The pharmacological effects were studied in high-fat-diet or
methionine-choline-deficient diet induced C57BL/6J mice models and in palmitic
acid (PA) induced L02 human liver cell model. Calcium fluorescence experiments,
computational virtual docking analysis and biochemical assays were used in
identifying the locus of Mat.
RESULTS: The results showed that Mat-treated mice were more resistant to
steatosis in the liver than vehicle-treated mice and that Mat significantly
reduced hepatic inflammation, lipid peroxides. The beneficial effect of Mat was
associated with suppressing ER stress and restoring mitochondrial dysfunction.
Additionally, Mat decreased the PA-induced lipid accumulation, ER stress and
cytosolic calcium level ([Ca2+]c) in hepatocyte cell lines in low and middle
dose. However, the high dose Mat did not show satisfactory results in cell model.
Calcium fluorescence experiments showed that Mat was able to regulate [Ca2+]c. By
computational virtual docking analysis and biochemical assays, Mat was shown to
influence [Ca2+]c via direct inhibition of SERCA.
CONCLUSIONS: The results showed that the bi-directional regulation of Mat to
endoplasmic reticulum at different doses was based on the inhibition of SERCA. In
addition, the results also provide a theoretical basis for Mat as a potential
therapeutic strategy in NAFLD/NASH.
EOF
Ghrelin is a peptide hormone which, when acylated, regulates appetite, energy
balance and a range of other biological processes. Ghrelin predominately
circulates in its unacylated form (unacylated ghrelin; UAG). UAG has a number of 
functions independent of acylated ghrelin, including modulation of metabolic
parameters and cancer progression. UAG has also been postulated to antagonise
some of the metabolic effects of acyl-ghrelin, including its effects on glucose
and insulin regulation. In this study, Rag1-/- mice with high-fat diet-induced
obesity and hyperinsulinaemia were subcutaneously implanted with PC3 prostate
cancer xenografts to investigate the effect of UAG treatment on metabolic
parameters and xenograft growth. Daily intraperitoneal injection of 100 μg/kg UAG
had no effect on xenograft tumour growth in mice fed normal rodent chow or 23%
high-fat diet. UAG significantly improved glucose tolerance in host Rag1-/- mice 
on a high-fat diet, but did not significantly improve other metabolic parameters.
We propose that UAG is not likely to be an effective treatment for prostate
cancer, with or without associated metabolic syndrome.
EOF
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D (GPI-PLD) is an enzyme that
specifically cleaves GPI anchors. Previous human studies suggested the
relationship of GPI-PLD to insulin resistance, type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the biological roles of
GPI-PLD have not been elucidated. Here, we hypothesized that GPI-PLD impacted on 
lipid and glucose metabolism, especially in the liver. GPI-PLD mRNA was most
highly expressed in the liver, and the hepatic mRNA level and circulating
concentration of GPI-PLD were significantly augmented in diabetic mice. To
investigate in vivo functions of GPI-PLD, we generated GPI-PLD knockout (GP-KO)
mice. Mice lacking GPI-PLD exhibited the amelioration of glucose intolerance and 
hepatic steatosis under high-fat and high-sucrose diet. Furthermore,
diacylglycerol (DAG) content was significantly decreased, and PKCε activity was
suppressed in the livers of GP-KO mice. In vitro knockdown and overexpression
experiments of GPI-PLD using rat primary hepatocytes showed the GPI-PLD-dependent
regulation of intracellular DAG content. Finally, serum GPI-PLD levels were
strongly and independently associated with serum alanine transaminase (R = 0.37, 
P = 0.0006) and triglyceride (R = 0.34, P = 0.001) levels in male subjects with
metabolic syndrome. In conclusion, upregulation of hepatic GPI-PLD in diabetic
conditions leads to DAG accumulation in the liver by shedding GPI anchors
intracellularly, which may play a causal role in impaired hepatic insulin
signaling and the progression of NAFLD.
EOF
Black-fruited chokeberries (Aronia melanocarpa), growing mainly in the Central
and Eastern European countries, have health benefits due to the high
concentrations of polyphenolic compounds. However, a strong bitter taste of
chokeberries limits its usage as functional food. We hypothesized that the
fermented A. melanocarpa with a reduced bitter taste would improve insulin
sensitivity and/or ameliorate weight gain induced by high-fat diet (HFD) in male 
C57BL/6J mice. The mice were administered with HFD together with the 100 mg/kg of
natural A. melanocarpa (T1) or the fermented A. melanocarpa (T2) for 8 weeks. The
treatment with T2 (100 mg/kg body weight, p.o.) markedly attenuated the weight
gain and the increase in serum triglyceride level induced by HFD. The T2-treated 
group had better glucose tolerance and higher insulin sensitivity as measured by 
oral glucose tolerance test and intraperitoneal insulin tolerance test in
comparison to the T1-treated group. Phytochemical analysis revealed that the main
constituents of T2 were cyanidin-3-xyloside and
1-(3',4'-dihydroxycinnamoyl)cyclopenta-2,3-diol, and the content of cyanidin
glycosides (3-glucoside, 3-xyloside) was significantly reduced during the
fermentation process. From the above results, we postulated that antiobesity
effect of black chokeberry was not closely correlated with the cyanidin content. 
Fermented chokeberry might be a viable dietary supplement rich in bioactive
compounds useful in preventing obesity.
EOF
The purpose of this study was to explore the effects of strontium on fatty liver,
and to clarify the possible mechanisms by which strontium improves nonalcoholic
fatty liver disease (NAFLD). We also evaluated how strontium affected the
endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) pathways. We established an in vitro model of 
NAFLD using a human hepatocyte cell line (L02) treated with 0.2 mM palmitic acid.
The Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with a high-fat diet (HFD) to establish NAFLD
model in vivo. After strontium treatment, the total cholesterol (TC),
triglyceride (TG), and lipid deposition in L02 cells and liver tissues were
determined. Strontium treatment suppressed intracellular TC and TG levels and
lipid accumulation in L02 cells, and the effect of high concentrations of
strontium were more obvious. Strontium significantly reduced the mRNA and protein
expression of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), activating transcription
factor 6 (ATF6), inositol requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), SREBP cleavage activator
protein (SCAP), sterol regulatory element binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c), and
SREBP-2 in L02 cells. In HFD-fed rats, strontium treatment reduced serum TC, TG, 
and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, concurrent with a
decrease in hepatic lipid accumulation. Furthermore, strontium treatment reduced 
the expression of GRP78 and SREBP-2 protein in liver tissues. Overall, strontium 
alleviated hepatic steatosis by decreasing ERS-related protein expression in vivo
and in vitro models. The results indicated that strontium has the potential to
become a new therapy for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.
EOF
AIMS: To examine whether the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist liraglutide
could be used in juvenile male and female rats as an anti-obesity/diabetic
pharmaceutical to prevent not only adolescent obesity/hyperglycaemia, but also
early-adult onset obesity.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Pregnant dams were fed either standard chow or a high-fat, 
high-sucrose diet (HFSD) from gestational day 2, throughout pregnancy and
lactation. Offspring were weaned onto the respective maternal diet. Juveniles
received daily subcutaneous injection of liraglutide (50 μg/kg, from postnatal
day [PND]30 to PND40 and 200 μg/kg from PND40 to PND60) or vehicle. Food intake, 
body weight and glycaemic levels were evaluated across the experimental period.
RESULTS: Chronic liraglutide administration in juveniles prevented body weight
gain in males and retained a normoglycaemic profile in both male and female rats.
CONCLUSION: These preclinical data suggest that maternal and early-life
consumption of an HFSD increases caloric intake, body weight gain and
hyperglycaemia, a collective set of unwanted metabolic effects that appear to be 
treatable in juveniles with liraglutide pharmacotherapy intervention.
EOF
Gut dysbiosis induced by high fat diet (HF) or obesity is a predisposing factor
to develop diverse inflammatory diseases. Polyphenols and fibers, often eaten
together, have been reported to have prebiotic actions, but their health
promoting benefits still need to be further characterized and defined. This study
attempted to understand how polyphenol rutin and polysaccharide inulin influence 
intestinal health in mouse model fed a HF (60 kcal%) diet. A total of 48 C57BL/6J
mice were divided into four groups fed with a low fat (10% kcal%) control diet
(LC), a high fat control diet (HC), a high-fat diet supplemented with rutin (HR),
or a high-fat diet supplemented rutin and inulin (HRI) for 20 weeks. Rutin
supplementation reduced the HF diet-induced increase of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes 
(F/B) ratio, Deferribacteraceae population and plasma lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (p
< 0.05); ameliorated inflammation as indicated by the decreased circulating
inflammatory cytokines (p < 0.05) and the reduced expressions of intestinal
inflammatory mediators (p < 0.05); and attenuated the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
stress in Paneth cells as indicated by the decreased expressions of the ER
markers (p < 0.05). Compared to the rutin supplementation alone, the
co-administration of rutin with inulin improved the utilization of rutin as
indicated by its decreased excretion, suppressed a number of harmful bacteria
including Deferribacteraceae and Desulfovibrionaceae (p < 0.05), and further
reduced the expression of the key inflammatory cytokine TNF-α and increased the
production of butyrate, despite the supplementation of inulin reversed the
decrease of body weight induced by rutin supplementation due to an increased food
intake. Taken together, our data demonstrated that rutin supplementation
ameliorated the inflammatory status and ER stress in Paneth cells under a
HF-induced obese state, and its co-administration with inulin further mitigated
the inflammatory status, indicating the potential to combine polyphenol rutin and
the polysaccharide inulin as a dietary strategy to ameliorate gut dysbiosis, to
improve inflammatory status and thereby to reduce medical disorders associated
with HF-induced obesity.
EOF
Postnatal overconsumption of fat is believed to increase the susceptibility to
metabolic disease in the later life. Here we examined whether prior exposure to
high fat (HF) in the adulthood may also accelerate the development of metabolic
disorders in mice. Adult mice (12 weeks) were pre-exposed to two episodes of an
HF diet each for 2 weeks followed by 2 weeks of washout with a low-fat diet. The 
mice were then fed the same HF diet for 6 weeks. Unexpectedly, prior exposures to
HF diet significantly alleviated body weight gain, visceral adiposity and
glucose/insulin intolerance during the period of last HF feeding. These
protective effects were evident without changing calorie intake and were specific
for HF, but not high fructose (HFru) diet. Following the HF prior exposures was
increases in plasma fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), the expressions of
phospho-AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK), mitochondrial complex II and the
expression of uncoupling protein (UCP) 3 in muscle and UCP1 and Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)
in adipose tissue. However, in the liver there was no significant change in
pAMPK, SIRT1 expression or the capacity of glucose production. These findings
indicated that, instead of exacerbating metabolic conditions, prior exposures to 
HF diet lead to the preconditioning against subsequent overload of HF, possibly
involving FGF21-associated enhancement of markers for metabolic capacity in
muscle and adipose tissue. This paradoxical phenomenon may offer a unique
paradigm to identify factors and explore dietary ingredients with beneficial
effects for the control of the metabolic syndrome in humans.
EOF
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the most prevalent cause of chronic liver 
disease worldwide. Macrophage-mediated inflammation plays a critical role in NASH
pathogenesis; however, optimum therapies for macrophage activation and NASH
remain elusive. HSPA12A encodes a novel member of the HSP70 family. Here, we
report that NASH patients showed increased hepatic HSPA12A expression and serum
HSPA12A contents. Intriguingly, knockout of HSPA12A (Hspa12a-/- ) in mice
attenuated high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic steatosis and injury. HFD-induced 
macrophage polarization toward an M1 phenotype and inflammatory responses in the 
liver of Hspa12a-/- mice were also attenuated. Loss- and gain-of-function studies
revealed that the de novo lipogenesis in hepatocytes was regulated by the
paracrine effects of macrophage HSPA12A rather than by hepatocyte HSPA12A.
In-depth molecular analysis revealed that HSPA12A interacted with the M2 isoform 
of pyruvate kinase (PKM2) in macrophages and increased its nuclear translocation,
thereby promoting M1 polarization and secretion of proinflammatory M1 cytokines; 
this led, ultimately, to hepatocyte steatosis via paracrine effects. Taken
together, these findings show that HSPA12A acts as a novel regulator of M1
macrophage polarization and NASH pathogenesis by increasing nuclear PKM2.
Strategies that inhibit macrophage HSPA12A might be a potential therapeutic
intervention for NASH.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by lipid accumulation
and inflammation in the liver, contributing to a broad spectrum of severe
pathologies, such as metabolic syndrome and hepatocellular carcinoma. Presently, 
the pathogenesis that attributes to NAFLD has not been fully understood. NLRP2
has been shown to inhibit the NF-κB signaling, and thus may contribute to
regulate the inflammatory response. However, its role in NAFLD is largely
unclear. In the study, we found that NLRP2 was markedly decreased in liver
tissues of individuals with severe steatosis, or in a genetic deficiency (ob/ob) 
mice. High fat diet (HFD) feeding also led to a significant reduction of NLRP2 in
liver of mice. Then, the wild type (WT) and NLRP2 knockout (KO) mice were used to
further explore the role of NLRP2 in the NAFLD progression. NLRP2 knockout mice
exhibited severer metabolic syndrome and hepatic steatosis after HFD
administration, as evidenced by the increased body weight, liver histological
changes and lipid accumulation. Moreover, HFD feeding-induced inflammation was
significantly accelerated by the loss of NLRP2, as evidenced by the increased
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and activation of nuclear factor κB
(NF-κB) pathway. In addition, oxidative stress triggered by HFD was further
promoted by NLRP2 deletion through repressing NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)
pathway. In vitro, we surprisingly found that promoting Nrf2 activation could
attenuate NLRP2 knockout-accelerated inflammation and reactive oxygen species
(ROS) generation. Therefore, our study indicated that NLRP2 might be a potential 
target for developing effective therapeutic strategy to prevent NAFLD
progression.
EOF
Diet-induced obesity induces peripheral inflammation accompanied by a loss of
myenteric neurons. Few studies, however, have investigated the effects of a
high-fat diet (HFD) on either the development of myenteric neurons or prior to
the occurrence of obesity. The present study assessed the effects of maternal HFD
on the density and neurochemical phenotype of myenteric ganglia in the upper
gastrointestinal tract. Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either a control or HFD (14%
or 60% kcal from fat, respectively) from embryonic day 13; the fundus, corpus and
duodenum were fixed thereafter at postnatal 2, 4, 6 and 12 weeks of age for
subsequent immunohistochemical studies. While myenteric ganglion size did not
differ throughout the study, HFD exposure decreased the number of nitrergic
neurons by 6 weeks of age in all regions. This decrease was accompanied by a loss
of PGP-immunoreactive neurons, suggesting a decline in myenteric neuronal number.
HFD also increased myenteric plexus glial cell density in all regions by 4 weeks 
of age. These changes occurred in the absence of an increase in serum or gastric 
inflammatory markers. The present study suggests that exposure to a HFD during
the perinatal time period results in glial proliferation and loss of inhibitory
nitrergic neurons prior to the onset of obesity, suggesting that dietary
alterations may affect gastrointestinal functions independently of increased
adiposity or glycemic dysregulation.
EOF
BACKGROUND:: The fetal fraction of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in maternal plasma is
decreased in obese women. The underlying mechanism is not well understood. The
amount of cfDNA released from the placenta has not been directly examined in
maternal obesity.
OBJECTIVE:: We sought to quantify release of cfDNA from the placenta and fetal
membranes in maternal diet-induced obesity using explant cultures in an
established mouse model.
STUDY DESIGN:: C57BL6/J females were fed either 60% high-fat diet or 10%
fat-matched control diet for 14 weeks prepregnancy and throughout gestation.
Placentas and fetal membranes were collected on e18 and randomly allocated to
time 0-, 1-, or 6-hour culture times. The CfDNA was isolated from culture media, 
quantified, and normalized to tissue weight.
RESULTS:: Placentas from obese dams released significantly less cfDNA compared to
those of lean dams at time 0 (45.8 ± 4.3 ng/mg vs 65.6 ± 7.9 ng/mg, P = .02).
Absolute cfDNA levels increased with longer placental culture, with no
significant differences between obese and lean dams at 1 and 6 hours. Membranes
released significantly less cfDNA than did placentas at every time point.
CONCLUSIONS:: Maternal obesity is associated with decreased release of cfDNA from
the placenta compared to lean controls immediately after tissue harvest. This may
provide an alternative explanation for the lower fetal fraction of cfDNA noted in
maternal obesity.
EOF
Uteroplacental insufficiency (UPI) causes intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) 
and increases the risk of hypercholesterolemia and cardiovascular disease, which 
are leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Little is known about
the mechanism through which UPI increases cholesterol. Hepatic Cholesterol 7
alpha-hydroxylase (Cyp7a1) is the rate-limiting and most highly regulated step of
cholesterol catabolism to bile acids. Cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase is
regulated by transcription factor liver X receptor α (Lxrα) and by microRNA-122. 
We previously showed that microRNA-122 inhibition of Cyp7a1 translation decreased
cholesterol catabolism to bile acids in female IUGR rats at the time of weaning. 
We hypothesized that UPI would increase cholesterol and microRNA-122 and decrease
Cyp7a1 protein and hepatic bile acids in young adult female IUGR rats. To test
our hypothesis, we used a rat model of IUGR induced by bilateral uterine artery
ligation. Both control and IUGR offspring were exposed to a maternal high-fat
diet from before conception through lactation, and all offspring were weaned to a
high-fat diet on postnatal day 21. At postnatal day 60, IUGR female rats had
increased total and low-density lipoprotein serum cholesterol and hepatic
cholesterol, decreased Lxrα and Cyp7a1 protein, and decreased hepatic bile acids.
Hepatic microRNA-122 was not changed by UPI. Our findings suggest that UPI
decreased cholesterol catabolism to bile acids in young adult female rats through
a mechanism independent of microRNA-122.
EOF
Aim Scutellariae Radix (SR) and Coptidis Rhizoma (CR) have often been combined to
cure type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in the clinical practice for over thousands 
of years, but their compatibility mechanism is not clear. Mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway has been suggested to play a critical
role during the process of inflammation, insulin resistance, and T2DM. This study
was designed to investigate their compatibility effects on T2DM rats and explore 
the underlying mechanisms by analyzing the metabolic profiling and MAPK/PI3K/Akt 
signaling pathway. Methods The compatibility effects of SR and CR were evaluated 
with T2DM rats induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) along with a low dose of
streptozocin (STZ). Ultra performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole
time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF/MS) was performed to discover
potential biomarkers. The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines; biochemical
indexes in serum, and the activities of key enzymes related to glycometabolism in
liver were assessed by ELISA kits. qPCR was applied to examine mRNA levels of key
targets in MAPK and insulin signaling pathways. Protein expressions of p65;
p-p65; phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K); phosphorylated-PI3K
(p-PI3K); protein kinase B (Akt); phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt) and glucose
transporter 2 (Glut2) in liver were investigated by Western blot analysis.
Results Remarkably, hyperglycaemia, dyslipidemia, inflammation, and insulin
resistance in T2DM were ameliorated after oral administration of SR and CR,
particularly their combined extracts. The effects of SR, CR, low dose of combined
extracts (LSC) and high dose of combined extracts (HSC) on pro-inflammatory
cytokine transcription in T2DM rats showed that the MAPK pathway might account
for the phenomenon with down-regulation of MAPK (P38 mitogen-activated protein
kinases (P38), extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK), and c-Jun
N-terminal kinase (JNK)) mRNA, and protein reduction in p-P65. While mRNA levels 
of key targets such as insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), PI3K, Akt2, and Glut2
in the insulin signaling pathway were notably up-modulated, phosphorylations of
PI3K, Akt, and expression of Glut2 were markedly enhanced. Moreover, the
increased activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK),
fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), glucose 6-phosphatase (G6Pase), and
glycogen phosphorylase (GP) were highly reduced and the decreased activities of
glucokinase (GK), phosphofructokinase (PFK), pyruvate kinase (PK), and glycogen
synthase (GS) in liver were notably increased after treatment. Further
investigation indicated that the metabolic profiles of plasma and urine were
clearly improved in T2DM rats. Fourteen potential biomarkers (nine in plasma and 
five in urine) were identified. After intervention, these biomarkers returned to 
normal level to some extent. Conclusion The results showed that SR, CR, and
combined extract groups were normalized. The effects of combined extracts were
more remarkable than single herb treatment. Additionally, this study also showed 
that the metabonomics method is a promising tool to unravel how traditional
Chinese medicines work.
EOF
Starches of low and high digestibility have different metabolic effects. Here, we
examined whether this gives differential metabolic programming when fed in the
immediate post-weaning period. Chow-fed mice were time-mated, and their nests
were standardized and cross-fostered at postnatal days 1⁻2. After postnatal week 
(PW) 3, individually housed female and male offspring were switched to a
lowly-digestible (LDD) or highly-digestible starch diet (HDD) for three weeks.
All of the mice received the same high-fat diet (HFD) for nine weeks thereafter. 
Energy and substrate metabolism and carbohydrate fermentation were studied at the
end of the HDD/LDD and HFD periods by extended indirect calorimetry. Glucose
tolerance (PW 11) and metabolic flexibility (PW14) were analyzed. Directly in
response to the LDD versus the HDD, females showed smaller adipocytes with less
crown-like structures in gonadal white adipose tissue, while males had a lower
fat mass and higher whole body fat oxidation levels. Both LDD-fed females and
males showed an enlarged intestinal tract. Although most of the phenotypical
differences disappeared in adulthood in both sexes, females exposed to LDD versus
HDD in the early post-weaning period showed improved metabolic flexibility in
adulthood. Cumulatively, these results suggest that the type of starch introduced
after weaning could, at least in females, program later-life health.
EOF
Loss of functional β-cell mass caused by lipotoxicity is a key pathogenic factor 
in the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). We have previously
reported that sphingosine kinase (SK)1 is an endogenous protector of β-cells
against lipotoxicity. The current study reports that SK2, another isoform of SK, 
is a crucial mediator of lipotoxicity in β-cells. Exposure of β-cells to
palmitatic acid (PA), a saturated free fatty acid, resulted in a nearly 2-fold
increase in SK2 expression, which paralleled the induction of cell death in a
similar dose- and time-dependent fashion. Silencing SK2 expression by its
specific small interfering RNAs significantly inhibited PA-induced cell death and
caspase-3 activation, whereas overexpression of SK2 promoted lipotoxicity in
β-cells. Mechanistically, upon exposure to PA, endogenous SK2 was shuttled from
the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where it interacted with B-cell
lymphoma-extra-large (Bcl-xL), leading to mitochondrial apoptotic pathway
activation and cell death. By blocking SK2 translocation and its interaction with
Bcl-xL, either the nuclear export signal mutant (L423A/L425A) or the BH3 domain
mutant (L219A) of SK2 significantly attenuated β-cell lipotoxicity. Furthermore, 
SK2 deficiency in mice significantly prevented the loss of β-cell mass, preserved
insulin production, and ameliorated the diabetic phenotype in an established T2DM
model induced by feeding a high-fat diet accompanied by administration of
streptozotocin. These findings provide the first evidence, in vitro and in vivo, 
of a critical role for SK2 in mediating β-cell lipotoxicity and the progression
of diabetes.-Song, Z., Wang, W., Li, N., Yan, S., Rong, K., Lan, T., Xia, P.
Sphingosine kinase 2 promotes lipotoxicity in pancreatic β-cells and the
progression of diabetes.
EOF
M2a-subtype macrophage activation is known to be impaired in obesity, although
the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Herein, we demonstrate that, 
the IL-4/Irs2/Akt pathway is selectively impaired, along with decreased
macrophage Irs2 expression, although IL-4/STAT6 pathway is maintained. Indeed,
myeloid cell-specific Irs2-deficient mice show impairment of IL-4-induced
M2a-subtype macrophage activation, as a result of stabilization of the
FoxO1/HDAC3/NCoR1 corepressor complex, resulting in insulin resistance under the 
HF diet condition. Moreover, the reduction of macrophage Irs2 expression is
mediated by hyperinsulinemia via the insulin receptor (IR). In myeloid
cell-specific IR-deficient mice, the IL-4/Irs2 pathway is preserved in the
macrophages, which results in a reduced degree of insulin resistance, because of 
the lack of IR-mediated downregulation of Irs2. We conclude that downregulation
of Irs2 in macrophages caused by hyperinsulinemia is responsible for systemic
insulin resistance via impairment of M2a-subtype macrophage activation in
obesity.
EOF
Obesity is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, but 
the direct signals to initiate or exaggerate cardiomyopathy remain largely
unknown. Present study aims to explore the pathophysiological role of
autotaxin/lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in the process of cardiomyopathy during
obesity. Through utilizing mouse model and clinical samples, present study
investigates the therapeutic benefits of autotaxin inhibitor and clinical
correlation to obesity-related cardiomyopathy. The elevated circulating levels of
autotaxin are closely associated with cardiac parameters in mice. Administration 
with autotaxin inhibitor, PF-8380 effectively attenuates high fat diet-induced
cardiac hypertrophy, dysfunction and inflammatory response. Consistently,
autotaxin inhibition also decreases circulating LPA levels in obese mice. In
in vitro study, LPA directly initiates cell size enlargement and inflammation in 
neonatal cardiomyocytes. More importantly, circulating levels of autotaxin are
positively correlated with cardiac dysfunction and hypertrophy in 55 patients. In
conclusion, present study uncovers the correlation between circulating autotaxin 
and cardiac parameters in mice and human patient, and provided solid evidence of 
the therapeutic application of autotaxin inhibitor in combating obesity-related
cardiomyopathy.
EOF
The therapeutic potency of ultrasonic nanoemulsified garlic oil blend using a
non-ionic surfactant (Tween 80) was assessed on pre-diabetic Wistar rats with
microalbuminuria. The pre-diabetic condition was induced in male albino Wistar
rats by supplementing high-fat diet. The prolonged period of the pre-diabetic
state caused renal dysfunctioning, which was indicated by microalbuminuria.
Treatment of pre-diabetic rats with nanoemulsified garlic oil blend significantly
ameliorated the lipid profile (p < 0.001), urinary albumin (p < 0.01),
microprotein (p < 0.001), urinary triglycerides (p < 0.01), serum triglycerides
(p < 0.01), serum albumin (p < 0.05), and protein levels (p < 0.01) in comparison
to treatment of pre-diabetic rats with garlic oil blend or atorvastatin.
Similarly, histopathological investigations indicated a remarkable attenuation in
the mesangial expansion and proliferation, glomerular and tubular basement
membrane thickening, and the tubular lipid deposits on administering
nanoemulsified garlic oil blend than garlic oil blend or atorvastatin. Moreover, 
nanoemulsified garlic oil blend significantly promoted renal podocin gene
expression by 3.98-fold (p < 0.001) and attenuated increased urinary podocin
level by 2.92-fold (p < 0.01). Thus, our study affirms that the efficacy of
garlic oil blend was augmented upon nanoemulsification, which substantially
ameliorated the renal abnormalities observed in the pre-diabetic condition than
garlic oil blend or atorvastatin.
EOF
Performance and body composition of insect larvae depend on quality and quantity 
of their diet, and on biotic factors such as larval density. We investigated the 
effect of dietary nutrient concentration and larval rearing density on survival, 
development, growth, and protein and fat contents of larvae of the black soldier 
fly (BSF), Hermetia illucens L. (Diptera: Stratiomyidae). Neonate larvae were fed
with a low (NC1), intermediate (NC2), or high nutrient concentration (NC3), and
with four rearing densities (50, 100, 200, or 400 larvae per container). Two
feeding regimes (FR) were tested: in FR1, the amount of diet added during the
experiment was based on the visually estimated larval mass present, whereas in
FR2, a fixed feeding ration of 0.6 g of food per larva was applied at the start. 
FR1 resulted in food limitation, resulting in significantly lower body crude
protein content on diet NC1 than on NC2 at larval densities 100 and 200. Larval
crude fat content was higher on diets with higher nutrient concentration and at
lower larval densities. For FR2, development time was shorter on diets with
higher nutrient concentration and at lower larval densities. Individual larval
weight and total larval yield increased with higher nutrient concentration at all
four larval densities. At lower nutrient concentration, higher larval density
resulted in higher individual larval weight and total larval yield, revealing an 
interaction between larval density and dietary quality. Larval crude protein
content was higher at lower densities and lower nutrient concentration. Larval
crude fat was higher at higher larval densities and nutrient concentrations. This
study indicates that larval protein content is regulated within narrow limits,
whereas larval crude fat content is strongly affected by nutrient concentration
and by larval density.
EOF
Exercise is an effective tool for improving high-fat diet induced fat
accumulation in the liver. However, the process of fat accumulation in the liver 
and the efficacy of early intervention with exercise remain unclear. The aim of
this study was to investigate the short- and long-term effects of high-fat diet
feeding and voluntary exercise on hepatic lipid metabolism in mice. Male C57BL/6J
mice aged 6 weeks were randomly divided into two groups, the control group and
high-fat diet feeding group, and fed a normal or high-fat diet for 12 weeks.
After 6 weeks, mice in the high-fat diet feeding group were further divided into 
no exercise group and voluntary exercise training group, with mice in the
exercise group provided a running wheel for 6 weeks. Body weight, food intake,
and wheel rotation counts were measured every second day for 12 weeks. We found
that voluntary exercise for 1 week (short-term exercise) significantly reduced
fat accumulation in the liver by downregulating the expression of hepatic
lipogenesis-associated proteins and upregulating the expression of hepatic
lipolysis-associated proteins, as determined through western blotting and
histology. Further, voluntary exercise for 6 weeks (long-term exercise)
downregulated the expression of hepatic lipogenesis-associated proteins. These
results suggest that hepatic lipogenesis and/or hepatic lipolysis mediate the
beneficial effects of voluntary exercise on hepatic fat accumulation.
EOF
Lotus seed epicarp (LSE) and lotus seed pot (LSP) were characterized, and a total
of 5 and 7 proanthocyanidins (PAs) were identified in purified LSE and LSP
extract, respectively. Purified LSE and LSP PAs significantly suppressed the body
weight and weight gain of white adipose tissue (WAT) and decreased the WAT cell
size in high-fat diet-induced obese mice regardless of the daily food intake. LSE
or LSP administration significantly lowered the serum leptin level and improved
the serum and liver lipid profiles (including total cholesterol (TC),
triglycerides (TG), high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), and low-density
lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels), increased activities of antioxidant
enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione transferase (GST)) and
reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration, and suppressed lipid peroxidation in
hepatic tissue. LSP PAs were generally more effective than LSE PAs. Both extracts
ameliorated obesity, insulin resistance, and oxidative damage in obese mice,
suggesting they are good candidates for value-added functional food and
nutraceutical ingredients.
EOF
Hippocampal microglia are vulnerable to the effects of aging, displaying a primed
phenotype and hyper-responsiveness to various stimuli. We have previously shown
that short-term high-fat diet (HFD) significantly impairs hippocampal- and
amygdala-based cognitive function in the aged without affecting it in the young. 
Here, we assessed if morphological and functional changes in microglia might be
responsible for this. We analyzed hippocampus and amygdala from young and aging
rats that had been given three days HFD, a treatment sufficient to cause both
hippocampal- and amygdala-dependent cognitive and neuroinflammatory differences
in the aged. Aging led to the expected priming of hippocampal microglia in that
it increased microglial numbers and reduced branching in this region. Aging also 
increased microglial phagocytosis of microbeads in the hippocampus, but the only 
effect of HFD in this region was to increase the presence of enlarged
synaptophysin boutons in the aged, indicative of neurodegeneration. In the
amygdala, HFD exacerbated the effects of aging on microglial priming (morphology)
and markedly suppressed phagocytosis without notably affecting synaptophysin.
These data reveal that, like the hippocampus, the amygdala displays aging-related
microglial priming. However, the microglia in this region are also uniquely
vulnerable to the detrimental effects of short-term HFD in aging.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Proteoglycan 4 (Prg4) has emerged from human association studies as a 
possible factor contributing to weight gain, dyslipidemia and insulin resistance.
In the current study, we investigated the causal role of Prg4 in controlling
lipid and glucose metabolism in mice.
METHODS: Prg4 knockout (KO) mice and wild-type (WT) littermates were challenged
with an obesogenic high-fat diet (45% of total calories as fat) for 16 weeks. To 
further stimulate the development of metabolic alterations, 10% fructose water
was provided starting from week 13.
RESULTS: Prg4 deficiency only tended to reduce diet-induced body weight gain, but
significantly improved glucose handling (AUC: -29%; p < 0.05), which was also
reflected by a tendency towards a reduced HOMA-IR score (-49%; p = 0.06 as
compared to WT mice). This coincided with lower hepatic expression of glycolysis 
(Gck: -30%; p < 0.05) and lipogenesis (Acc: -21%; p < 0.05 and Scd1: -38%;
p < 0.001) genes, which translated in significantly lower hepatic triglyceride
levels (-56%; p < 0.001) in Prg4 KO mice as compared to WT mice. Prg4 KO mice
likely had lower glucose utilization by skeletal muscle as compared to WT mice,
judged by a significant reduction in the genes Glut4 (-29%; p < 0.01), Pfkm
(-21%; p < 0.05) and Hk2 (-39%; p < 0.001). Moreover, Prg4 KO mice showed a
favorable white adipose tissue phenotype with lower uptake of
triglyceride-derived fatty acids (-46%; p < 0.05) and lower gene expression of
inflammatory markers Cd68, Mcp1 and Tnfα (-65%, -81% and -63%, respectively;
p < 0.01) than WT mice.
CONCLUSION: Prg4 KO mice are protected from high-fat diet-induced glucose
intolerance and fatty liver disease.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1C (CPT1C) is implicated in central
regulation of energy homeostasis. Our aim was to investigate whether CPT1C in the
ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) is involved in the activation of
brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis in the early stages of diet-induced
obesity.
METHODS: CPT1C KO and wild type (WT) mice were exposed to short-term high-fat
(HF) diet feeding or to intracerebroventricular leptin administration and BAT
thermogenesis activation was evaluated. Body weight, adiposity, food intake, and 
leptinemia were also assayed.
RESULTS: Under 7 days of HF diet, WT mice showed a maximum activation peak of BAT
thermogenesis that counteracted obesity development, whereas this activation was 
impaired in CPT1C KO mice. KO animals evidenced higher body weight, adiposity,
hyperleptinemia, ER stress, and disrupted hypothalamic leptin signaling.
Leptin-induced BAT thermogenesis was abolished in KO mice. These results indicate
an earlier onset leptin resistance in CPT1C KO mice. Since AMPK in the VMH is
crucial in the regulation of BAT thermogenesis, we analyzed if CPT1C was a
downstream factor of this pathway. Genetic inactivation of AMPK within the VMH
was unable to induce BAT thermogenesis and body weight loss in KO mice,
indicating that CPT1C is likely downstream AMPK in the central mechanism
modulating thermogenesis within the VMH. Quite opposite, the expression of CPT1C 
in the VMH restored the phenotype.
CONCLUSION: CPT1C is necessary for the activation of BAT thermogenesis driven by 
leptin, HF diet exposure, and AMPK inhibition within the VMH. This study
underscores the importance of CPT1C in the activation of BAT thermogenesis to
counteract diet-induced obesity.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Eugenol, a phenolic compound present in many plant essential oils,
demonstrated anti-diabetic activity but the underlying mechanisms are not fully
understood. The aim of the present study was to examine the anti-diabetic,
anti-oxidative and the anti-inflammatory effect of eugenol in high-fat-diet (HFD)
and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Additionally, the effect of
eugenol on the insulin sensitivity and on skeletal muscle protein contents of
glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was
investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: HFD/STZ-induced diabetic rats were treated orally with
eugenol (10 mg/kg) for 45 days. After the end of the experiment, blood and
skeletal muscle samples were collected. Metformin was used as positive control.
RESULTS: The anti-diabetic effects of eugenol were demonstrated by the
significant reduction in the levels of serum glucose, triglyceride, cholesterol, 
Low-density lipoprotein, malondialdehyde and interleukin-6 in the treated group
compared to the diabetic group. Additionally, eugenol treatment significantly
restored the decreased serum levels of insulin and glutathione when compared to
that of the diabetic control rats. The homeostasis model assessment of insulin
resistance (HOMA-IR) was significantly lower in rats treated with eugenol than in
the diabetic rats. The skeletal muscle protein contents of GLUT4 and AMPK were
higher in the eugenol treated group than in the diabetic control group.
CONCLUSION: Eugenol possesses potent anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effect 
in HFD/STZ-induced diabetic rats. Moreover, eugenol facilitates insulin
sensitivity and stimulate skeletal muscle glucose uptake via activation of the
GLUT4-AMPK signaling pathway. Eugenol could represent a promising therapeutic
agent to prevent type 2 diabetes.
EOF
The objective of this study was to determine if the risk of developing subacute
ruminal acidosis, as potentially affected by dietary straw particle size,
influenced the feed sorting, rumination behavior, and milk production of early
lactation dairy cows. Upon calving, 41 multiparous Holstein cows were fed a total
mixed ration with 9% wheat straw (dry matter basis) chopped (1) using a 2.54-cm
screen (short; n = 21) or (2) using a 5.08-cm screen (long; n = 20). For the
first 4 wk following calving, rumination behavior (recorded using data loggers
attached to neck collars) and reticulorumen pH (recorded using wireless telemetry
boluses) were monitored 24 h/d. Due to technical failures, analyses were
conducted on 38 cows (n = 19 per treatment). Total mixed ration and orts samples 
were collected every 3 d to determine feed sorting. Based on an acidosis index,
created using area under the curve data (reticulorumen pH < 5.8) normalized for
dry matter intake, cows were categorized as either low (LR) or high (HR) risk for
developing subacute ruminal acidosis (SARA). Low risk cows had higher mean (6.3
vs. 6.1), minimum (6.0 vs. 5.7), and maximum (6.7 vs. 6.5) reticulorumen pH than 
HR cows. Low risk cows also had less severe area under the curve values (1.5 vs. 
49.4 pH × min/d) and spent less time below a reticulorumen pH threshold of 5.8
(21.9 vs. 309.2 min/d). Although total milk yield was unaffected by SARA risk, LR
cows produced more 4% fat-corrected milk (47.2 vs. 41.9 kg/d) and milk fat (2.1
vs. 1.8 kg/d) than HR cows. A SARA risk category × treatment interaction was
detected for sorting all fractions of the diet; HR cows on the long treatment
sorted against the longest particles in the diet, whereas LR cows on the same
treatment did not sort this fraction, suggesting that SARA risk may be mitigated 
by a more balanced intake of physically effective fiber. High risk cows on the
short treatment consumed the longest dietary particles as predicted, and sorted
in favor of the physically effective medium and short particles. A SARA risk
category × treatment interaction was detected for rumination behavior; within the
long treatment, HR cows tended to ruminate less than LR cows (432.3 vs. 493.2
min/d). Overall, these results suggest that LR cows consumed a more balanced
diet, whereas HR cows sorted their feed more, particularly when fed the diet
containing long straw particles, which may have led to reduced rumination
activity and yield of milk fat and fat-corrected milk.
EOF
Rodent and clinical studies have documented that myeloid cell infiltration of
tumors is associated with poor outcomes, neutrophilia and lymphocytopenia. This
contrasts with increased lymphocyte infiltration of tumors, which is correlated
with improved outcomes. Lifestyle parameters, such as obesity and diets with high
levels of saturated fat and/or omega (ω)-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs),
can influence these inflammatory parameters, including an increase in
extramedullary myelopoiesis (EMM). While tumor secretion of growth factors (GFs) 
and chemokines regulate tumor-immune-cell crosstalk, lifestyle choices also
contribute to inflammation, abnormal pathology and leukocyte infiltration of
tumors. A relationship between obesity and high-fat diets (notably saturated fats
in Western diets) and inflammation, tumor incidence, metastasis and poor outcomes
is generally accepted. However, the mechanisms of dietary promotion of an
inflammatory microenvironment and targeted drugs to inhibit the clinical sequelae
are poorly understood. Thus, modifications of obesity and dietary fat may provide
preventative or therapeutic approaches to control tumor-associated inflammation
and disease progression. Currently, the majority of basic and clinical research
does not differentiate between obesity and fatty acid consumption as mediators of
inflammatory and neoplastic processes. In this review, we discuss the
relationships between dietary PUFAs, inflammation and neoplasia and experimental 
strategies to improve our understanding of these relationships. We conclude that 
dietary composition, notably the ratio of ω-3 vs ω-6 PUFA regulates tumor growth 
and the frequency and sites of metastasis that together, impact overall survival 
(OS) in mice.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) regulates vascular function in a
paracrine manner and the vasodilatory effect of PVAT on vessels is completely
abolished in obesity. In addition, autophagy is required for maintaining
biological function of PVAT and has been shown to be inhibited in obesity. The
aim of this study was to explore whether alogliptin improves endothelial function
by promoting autophagy in PVAT in obese mice.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were maintained on high fat diet with or without alogliptin
intervention for 3 months. Vasorelaxation function of thoracic aorta with or
without PVAT was determined. Autophagy related protein level of p62 and LC3B,
along with phosphorylated mTOR (p-mTOR) were evaluated. In addition, the effects 
of alogliptin on autophagy were also investigated in cultured adipocytes.
RESULTS: The presence of PVAT significantly impaired endothelium-dependent
vasodilation in obese mice and alogliptin intervention corrected this defect.
Autophagy in PVAT was decreased in obese mice and alogliptin intervention
activated autophagy. Activating autophagy in PVAT improved endothelium-dependent 
vasodilation while blocking it in PVAT impaired vasodilation function. Further,
addition of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) but not alogliptin alone activated
autophagy. Moreover, GLP-1 and alogliptin co-treatment did not show additive
effect on activating autophagy.
CONCLUSIONS: These results revealed that promoting autophagy in PVAT improved
endothelial function in response to alogliptin intervention. Additionally, the
beneficial effect of alogliptin intervention on PVAT was GLP-1 dependent.
EOF
SCOPE: The previous study shows that obesity-promoted inflammation is responsible
for the activation of the intestinal tumorigenic Wnt-signaling. The present study
aims to test a dietary strategy, dietary supplementation with a high dose of
vitamin D (VD) or its combination with sulforaphane (SFN) to inhibit intestinal
inflammation and obesity-associated tumorigenesis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Apc1638N mice are randomly divided into four groups: LF, a
low-fat diet (10 kcal% fat) with 200 IU VD; HF, a high-fat diet (60 kcal% fat)
with 200 IU VD; HFD, a high-fat diet with 5000 IU VD; and HFDS, a high-fat diet
plus 5000 IU VD and 0.23 g SFN per ≈4000 kcal. VD administration decreased tumor 
incidence and size, and the co-administration with SFN (HFDS) magnified the
effects. Inflammation and Wnt-signaling are suppressed by VD. The addition of SFN
decreased the activity of histone deacetylase (HDAC) and increased autophagy.
CONCLUSION: The administration of VD, at 5000 IU level, exerts an
anti-inflammatory property and leads to suppressed intestinal Wnt-signaling and
tumorigenesis in obese mice. The molecular function of SFN on a high dose of VD
supplementation, although displayed on the inhibition of HDAC and the activation 
of autophagy, needs further investigation.
EOF
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasing in worldwide prevalence,
closely tracking the obesity epidemic, but specific pharmaceutical treatments for
NAFLD are lacking. Defining the key molecular pathways underlying the
pathogenesis of NAFLD is essential for developing new drugs. Here we demonstrate 
that inhibition of gut-derived serotonin synthesis ameliorates hepatic steatosis 
through a reduction in liver serotonin receptor 2A (HTR2A) signaling. Local
serotonin concentrations in the portal blood, which can directly travel to and
affect the liver, are selectively increased by high-fat diet (HFD) feeding in
mice. Both gut-specific Tph1 knockout mice and liver-specific Htr2a knockout mice
are resistant to HFD-induced hepatic steatosis, without affecting systemic energy
homeostasis. Moreover, selective HTR2A antagonist treatment prevents HFD-induced 
hepatic steatosis. Thus, the gut TPH1-liver HTR2A axis shows promise as a drug
target to ameliorate NAFLD with minimal systemic metabolic effects.
EOF
Both incidence and death rate due to liver cancer have increased in the United
States. Higher consumption of lycopene-rich tomato and tomato products is
associated with a decreased risk of cancers. β-Carotene-15, 15'-oxygenase (BCO1),
and β-carotene-9', 10'-oxygenase (BCO2) cleave lycopene to produce bioactive
apo-lycopenoids. Although BCO1/BCO2 polymorphisms affect human and animal
lycopene levels, whether dietary tomato consumption can inhibit high-fat diet
(HFD)-promoted hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development and affect gut
microbiota in the absence of BCO1/BCO2 is unclear. BCO1/BCO2 double knockout mice
were initiated with a hepatic carcinogen (diethylnitrosamine) at 2 weeks of age. 
At 6 weeks of age, the mice were randomly assigned to an HFD (60% of energy as
fat) with or without tomato powder (TP) feeding for 24 weeks. Results showed that
TP feeding significantly decreased HCC development (67%, 83%, and 95% reduction
in incidence, multiplicity, and tumor volume, respectively, P < 0.05). Protective
effects of TP feeding were associated with (1) decreased hepatic inflammatory
foci development and mRNA expression of proinflammatory biomarkers (IL1β, IL6,
IL12α, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and inducible NO synthase); (2)
increased mRNA expression of deacetylase sirtuin 1 and nicotinamide
phosphoribosyltransferase involving NAD+ production; and (3) increased hepatic
circadian clock genes (circadian locomotor output cycles kaput, period 2, and
cryptochrome-2, Wee1). Furthermore, TP feeding increased gut microbial richness
and diversity, and significantly decreased the relative abundance of the genus
Clostridium and Mucispirillum, respectively. The present study demonstrates that 
dietary tomato feeding independent of carotenoid cleavage enzymes prevents
HFD-induced inflammation with potential modulating gut microbiota and inhibits
HFD-promoted HCC development.
EOF
Peripheral neuropathy (neuropathy) is a common complication of obesity and type 2
diabetes in children and adolescents. To model this complication in mice,
5-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were fed a high-fat diet to induce diet-induced
obesity (DIO), a model of prediabetes, and a cohort of these animals was injected
with low-dose streptozotocin (STZ) at 12 weeks of age to induce hyperglycemia and
type 2 diabetes. Neuropathy assessments at 16, 24 and 36 weeks demonstrated that 
DIO and DIO-STZ mice displayed decreased motor and sensory nerve conduction
velocities as early as 16 weeks, hypoalgesia by 24 weeks and cutaneous nerve
fiber loss by 36 weeks, relative to control mice fed a standard diet.
Interestingly, neuropathy severity was similar in DIO and DIO-STZ mice at all
time points despite significantly higher fasting glucose levels in the DIO-STZ
mice. These mouse models provide critical tools to better understand the
underlying pathogenesis of prediabetic and diabetic neuropathy from youth to
adulthood, and support the idea that hyperglycemia alone does not drive early
neuropathy.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first
author of the paper.
EOF
BACKGROUND: The consumption of edible oils in China has increased rapidly in
recent years, and the total amount of edible-oil intake in the country has ranked
first in the world. The choice and intake of edible oils, as a source of fats,
are important factors that affect people's health. Many chronic diseases are
closely associated with high-calorie and saturated-fat intake. The influence of
traditional concepts that promote the use of edible oils among women,
particularly housewives, plays a key role in a household's diet and nutrition
because the diet-related knowledge, attitude and behaviour of housewives are
dominant factors in planning and preparing their family's meals. WeChat, which
was developed by Tencent, is a multipurpose messaging, social media and mobile
payment application (app) in China. Described by Forbes as one of the world's
most powerful apps, WeChat provides considerable convenience in disseminating
knowledge. Accordingly, this study aims to design a pilot intervention to
decrease the use of edible oils in Chinese households. The intervention, which is
based on theories of behaviour change, will be implemented through WeChat.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The study design is a randomised controlled trial that adopts
knowledge, attitude and practice, social cognitive and stages of change theories 
as theoretical models. A total of 800 housewives between the ages of 25 and
45 years will be recruited on WeChat and from the communities in four areas
(including rural and urban) in Chongqing, China. A self-administered
questionnaire will be used to collect information regarding age, educational
level, occupation, family members, edible-oil intake habits, knowledge of edible 
oils and WeChat usage habits. A total of 200 participants will be selected and
randomly assigned to two equal-sized groups: group A (the intervention group) and
group B (the control group). Group A will receive health education regarding
edible oils for four consecutive weeks, whereas group B will be treated as the
blank control. Each participant will complete a battery of knowledge, attitude
and behaviour tests immediately, 3 months and 6 months after the intervention. In
addition, weight, moisture rate, fat rate, visceral fat level and body mass index
will be calculated using a multifunctional weighing scale, namely, Tanita BC-601 
(Japan). The study is currently in the design stage.
DISCUSSION: This study aims to increase knowledge and awareness of the
appropriate use of edible oils, thereby encouraging participants to change
behaviour by decreasing the intake of unhealthy levels of edible oils. It will be
the first intervention to investigate the use of edible oils in China through
WeChat. We predict that receiving health education regarding edible oils through 
WeChat will substantially improve the knowledge and attitude of the respondents. 
The members of the intervention group will have increased awareness and will be
willing to decrease their use of edible oils to remain healthy. Results of this
study may provide scientific evidence for the effect of health education through 
WeChat on edible oil-intake behaviour, thereby offering a comprehensive
intervention to decrease the use of edible oils and promote a healthy lifestyle.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (primary registry in the
World Health Organisation registry network): ChiCTR-IOR-17013472 . Registered on 
21 November 2017.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Excessive hepatic fat is associated with increased metabolic risk
factors, production of inflammatory factors, and oxidative stress. High protein
intake might trigger an increased hepatic lipid oxidation through an increase in 
hepatic energy expenditure. Furthermore, the majority of randomized controlled
trials (RCT) in humans have failed to show whether carotenoids can be used to
prevent and treat non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, it is
notable and contradictory that NAFLD is rapidly escalating in Iran and other
countries with lower intakes of fruit and vegetables (as sources of
β-cryptoxanthin [β-CX] and carbohydrates) and higher intake of carbohydrates (as 
an agent of NAFLD); and the effects of β-CX and a high protein diet (HPD) on
NAFLD need to be investigated further.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study will be conducted as a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled clinical trial for 12 weeks to receive daily β-CX 6 mg
supplementation combined with a HPD on levels of metabolic factors, β-CX,
glycemic and lipid profiles, inflammatory factors, adipocytokines, and body
composition. Ninety-two eligible patients, aged 18-60 years, of both genders, who
are obese and overweight (body mass index [BMI] 25-40 kg/m2) will be randomly
assigned to four groups as follow: HPD + placebo; normal protein diet + β-CX
(NPD + β-CX); HPD + β-CX; and NPD + placebo (control group). Two populations will
be analyzed in this work. The intention-to-treat (ITT) population includes all
patients who will be randomized, while the per-protocol (PP) population includes 
all individuals who complete the 12- week intervention (i.e. study completers).
DISCUSSION: Our findings from this trial will contribute to the knowledge of the 
relationship between β-CX supplementation and a HPD on NAFLD patients and
determination of optimal macronutrient ratios without energy restriction.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Iran clinical trials registry, IRCT2017060210181N10 .
Registered on 20 June 2017.
EOF
The objective was to assess the effects of a weight loss and subsequent weight
maintenance period comprising two diets differing in protein intake, on brain
reward reactivity to visual food cues. Brain reward reactivity was assessed with 
functional magnetic resonance imaging in 27 overweight/obese individuals with
impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance (HOMA-IR: 3.7 ± 1.7;
BMI: 31.8 ± 3.2 kg/m²; fasting glucose: 6.4 ± 0.6 mmol/L) before and after an
8-week low energy diet followed by a 2-year weight maintenance period, with
either high protein (HP) or medium protein (MP) dietary guidelines. Brain
reactivity and possible relationships with protein intake, anthropometrics,
insulin resistance and eating behaviour were assessed. Brain reactivity, BMI,
HOMA-IR and protein intake did not change differently between the groups during
the intervention. In the whole group, protein intake during weight maintenance
was negatively related to changes in high calorie images>low calorie images (H > 
L) brain activation in the superior/middle frontal gyrus and the inferior
temporal gyrus (p < 0.005, corrected for multiple comparisons). H > L brain
activation was positively associated with changes in body weight and body-fat
percentage and inversely associated with changes in dietary restraint in multiple
reward, gustatory and processing regions (p < 0.005, corrected for multiple
comparisons). In conclusion, changes in food reward-related brain activation were
inversely associated with protein intake and dietary restraint during weight
maintenance after weight loss and positively associated with changes in body
weight and body-fat percentage.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Bile diversion to the ileum (GB-IL) has strikingly similar
metabolic and satiating effects to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) in rodent
obesity models. The metabolic benefits of these procedures are thought to be
mediated by increased bile acids, though parallel changes in body weight and
other confounding variables limits this interpretation.
METHODS: Global G protein-coupled bile acid receptor-1 null (Tgr5-/-) and
intestinal-specific farnesoid X receptor null (FxrΔ/E) mice on high-fat diet as
well as wild-type C57BL/6 and glucagon-like polypeptide 1 receptor deficient
(Glp-1r-/-) mice on chow diet were characterized following bile diversion to the 
ileum (GB-IL).
RESULTS: GB-IL induced weight loss and improved oral glucose tolerance in HFD-fed
Tgr5-/-, but not FxrΔ/E mice, suggesting a role for intestinal Fxr. GB-IL in
wild-type, chow-fed mice prompted weight-independent improvements in glycemia and
glucose tolerance secondary to augmented insulin responsiveness. Improvements
were concomitant with increased levels of lymphatic GLP-1 in the fasted state and
increased levels of intestinal Akkermansia muciniphila. Improvements in fasting
glycemia after GB-IL were mitigated with Ex-9, a GLP-1 receptor antagonist, or
cholestyramine, a bile acid sequestrant. The glucoregulatory effects of GB-IL
were lost in whole body Glp-1r-/- mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Bile diversion to the ileum improves glucose homeostasis via an
intestinal Fxr-Glp-1 axis. Altered intestinal bile acid availability, independent
of weight loss, and intestinal Akkermansia muciniphila appear to mediate the
metabolic changes observed after bariatric surgery and might be manipulated for
treatment of obesity and diabetes.
EOF
The current review aimed to elucidate the role of diet in every stage of
inflammatory bowel diseases, from aspects of prevention, treatment and
rehabilitation. Western diet, characterized by overconsumption of refined sugar
and saturated fat and low consumption of dietary fiber, may partly be blamed for 
its pathogenesis. Some immune-modulated nutrients (fibers, monounsaturated fatty 
acids, n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and vitamin D) exert their potential
beneficial effects on gut microbiota and immune function, resulting in clinical
remission and/or preventing relapse. However, data is limited to conclude optimal
micronutrient levels and therapeutic implications. Further, diet itself is
complex; therefore, it is reasonable to evaluate diet as a whole rather than a
single type of food. Some specific dietary patterns are generated for the
management of inflammatory bowel diseases with controversial results. Only
exclusive enteral nutrition has been widely recommended for pediatric patients
with non-stricturing active Crohn's disease. Self-monitoring, avoidance of
certain types of foods, limited intake of alcohol and smoking, supplementation of
minerals and vitamins if deficiency is confirmed, and adherence to the diet
enriched in vegetables and fruits and low in animal food and un-digested fiber
during flares are the most common dietary recommendation. Further clinical trials
with a high evidence rank are warranted.
EOF
Inner and outer blood-retinal barriers (BRBs), mainly composed of retinal
endothelial cells and retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, respectively,
maintain the integrity of the retinal tissues. In this study, we aimed to
investigate the mechanisms of the outer BRB disruption regarding the interaction 
between RPE and microglia. In mice with high-fat diet-induced obesity and
streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia, microglia accumulated on the RPE layer, as 
in those after intravitreal injection of interleukin (IL)-6, which is elevated in
ocular fluids of patients with diabetic retinopathy. Although IL-6 did not
directly affect the levels of zonula occludens (ZO)-1 and occludin in RPE cells, 
IL-6 increased VEGFA mRNA in RPE cells to recruit microglial cells. In microglial
cells, IL-6 upregulated the mRNA levels of MCP1, MIP1A, and MIP1B, to amplify the
recruitment of microglial cells. In this manner, IL-6 modulated RPE and
microglial cells to attract microglial cells on RPE cells. Furthermore,
IL-6-treated microglial cells produced and secreted tumor necrosis factor
(TNF)-α, which activated NF-κB and decreased the levels of ZO-1 in RPE cells. As 
STAT3 inhibition reversed the effects of IL-6-treated microglial cells on the RPE
monolayer in vitro, it reduced the recruitment of microglial cells and the
production of TNF-α in RPE tissues in streptozotocin-treated mice. Taken
together, IL-6-treated RPE and microglial cells amplified the recruitment of
microglial cells and IL-6-treated microglial cells produced TNF-α to disrupt the 
outer BRB in diabetic retinopathy.
EOF
Numerous risk factors are responsible for the development of atherosclerosis, for
which an increased serum level of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is 
a driving force. By binding to the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol receptor
(LDLR) and inducing LDLR degradation, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type
9 (PCSK9) plays a key role in cholesterol homeostasis regulation. The inducement 
of PCSK9 expression is also an important reason for statin intolerance. The Di'ao
Xinxuekang (DXXK) capsule extracted from Dioscorea nipponica Makino is a
well-known traditional Chinese herbal medicinal product used in atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease. Although DXXK has been widely used in atherosclerotic
cardiovascular treatment for nearly 30 years, studies on the potential mechanisms
of the lipid-lowering effect are very limited. The purpose of the present study
was to demonstrate the possible involvement of the PCSK9/LDLR signaling pathway
in the lipid-lowering and antiatherosclerotic effect of DXXK in high-fat diet-fed
ApoE-/- mice. The results showed that DXXK treatment alleviated hyperlipidemia,
fat accumulation, and atherosclerosis formation in ApoE-/- mice. Furthermore,
changes in the expression of PCSK9 mRNA in liver tissue and the circulating PCSK9
level in ApoE-/- mice were both reversed after DXXK treatment, and upregulation
of LDLR in the liver was also detected in the protein level in DXXK-treated mice.
Our study is the first to show that DXXK could alleviate lipid disorder and
ameliorate atherosclerosis with downregulation of the PCSK9 in high-fat diet-fed 
ApoE-/- mice, suggesting that DXXK may be a potential novel therapeutic treatment
and may support statin action in the treatment of atherosclerosis.
EOF
Our previous studies have shown that DJ-1 play important roles in progression of 
liver diseases through modulating hepatic ROS production and immune response, but
its role in hepatic steatosis remains obscure. In the present study, by adopting 
a high-fat-diet (HFD) induced mice model, we found that DJ-1 knockout (DJ-1 -/- )
mice showing decreased HFD-induced obesity and visceral adipose accumulation. In 
line with these changes, there were also reduced liver weight and ameliorated
hepatic triglyceride (TG) accumulation in DJ-1-/- mice compared to wild-type (WT)
mice. And there were also decreased blood glucose levels and insulin resistance
and reduced glucose metabolic disorder in DJ-1-/- mice, whereas there were no
significant differences in total cholesterol (TC) and serum lipid in two groups
of mice. Mechanistically, we found that there were no differences in food intake 
in these two genotypes of mice. Furthermore, there were no significant
differences in fatty acid synthesis and glycolysis, but the expression of key
enzymes in fatty acid oxidation and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, such as
Cpt1α, Pparα, Acox1, Cs, Idh1 and Idh2, was increased in DJ-1-/- mice liver,
suggesting that there was enhanced fatty acids oxidation and TCA cycle in DJ-1-/-
mice. Our data indicate that deletion of DJ-1 enhancing fatty acids oxidation
resulting in lower hepatic TG accumulation in mice, which protecting mice hepatic
steatosis.
EOF
Erratic eating behavior disrupts the daily feeding and fasting pattern and leads 
to metabolic dysfunction and chronic diseases including cancer. In the present
study, we tested the hypothesis that time-restricted feeding of a high-fat diet
(HFD) to the dark phase does not enhance mammary tumorigenesis in MMTV-PyMT mice.
Female mice were assigned to 3 groups and fed the standard AIN93G diet or an HFD 
with or without dark phase restricted feeding (12 hours). The duration of
restricted feeding was 8 weeks. The HFD group had 24% more body fat mass than the
AIN93G group; the body fat mass of the restricted group remained similar to that 
of the AIN93G group. Energy intake of the restricted group was similar to that of
the HFD and AIN93G groups. The median mammary tumor latency was 5.8, 7.0, and 6.4
weeks for the AIN93G, HFD, and restricted groups, respectively. Mammary tumor
progression was 241% higher in the HFD group than that in the AIN93G group; there
was no significant difference in tumor progression between the restricted and
AIN93G groups. Plasma concentrations of leptin, monocyte chemoattractant
protein-1, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, angiopoietin-2, vascular
endothelial growth factor, and hepatocyte growth factor were significantly higher
in the HFD group than those in the control group; these measurements were similar
between the restricted and control groups. In conclusion, feeding restricted to
the dark phase mitigates the HFD-enhanced mammary tumorigenesis; this may be
related to the lower body adiposity and associated inflammatory and angiogenic
signals.
EOF
Obesity, a chronic condition associated with several life-threatening diseases,
affects a significant proportion of the global population and has long been
associated with vitamin D deficiency. The prevalence of both obesity and vitamin 
D deficiency has increased dramatically in Jordan in recent decades, especially
among women. Few studies in Jordan and the surrounding area address this issue.
In this study, we hypothesize that calcium and vitamin D have beneficial effects 
on weight reduction and metabolic profile in obese women. The objective of this
study is to examine the effect of vitamin D3 and calcium supplementation on
anthropometric measurements and some blood metabolites. Forty-five obese female
subjects with vitamin D deficiency were recruited by a dietitian and randomly
assigned to the same weight loss diet in addition to the following treatments (4 
groups): control (CON), no prescribed supplements; vitamin D3 (Diet/D), given a
high weekly dose of cholecalciferol (50 000 IU/subject/week); calcium (Diet/Ca), 
given 1200 mg/dL calcium/subject/day; vitamin D3 plus Ca (Diet/Ca/D), given
cholecalciferol (50 000 IU/subject/week) and calcium (1200 mg/dL
calcium/subject/day). Results revealed that after 3 months of supplementation,
the Diet/Ca/D group subjects experienced a significant reduction (P ≤ .05) in
weight (10.49 kg), BMI (4.61 ± 2 kg/m2), waist circumference (11.41 ± 8.9 cm),
body fat percentage (2.43 ± 1.7%), FBG (25.81 ± 11.4 mg/dL), PTH (27.58 ± 8.9
pg/mL), cholesterol (0.56 ± 0.2 mmol/L), and triglycerides (0.53 ± 0.21 mmol/L)
when compared to the Diet/Ca and the CON groups. Interestingly, however, the CON 
group showed a significant increase in serum PTH concentration (9.51 ± 3.8 pg/mL,
P ≤ .05). Based on these results, a combined Ca and vitamin D3 supplement appears
to enhance weight loss and improve some of the blood metabolic profiles in obese 
women subjected to a weight loss diet, thus supporting our study hypothesis.
EOF
Dyslipidemia is a precursor to a myriad of cardiovascular diseases in the modern 
world. Age, gender, and diet are known modifiers of lipid levels, however they
are not frequently investigated in subset analyses. Food and nutrient intakes
from National Health and Nutrition Examination Study 2001⁻2013 were used to
assess the correlation between lipid levels (high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and
total cholesterol (TC):HDL cholesterol ratio) and nutritional intake using linear
regression. Associations were initially stratified by gender and significant
gender correlations were further stratified by age. Analyses were performed at
both the dietary pattern and nutrient level. Dietary pattern and fat intake
correlations agreed with the literature in direction and did not demonstrate
gender or age effects; however, we observed gender and age interactions among
other dietary patterns and individual nutrients. These effects were independent
of ethnicity, caloric intake, socioeconomic status, and physical activity.
Elevated HDL cholesterol levels correlated with increasing vitamin and mineral
intake in females of child bearing age but not males or older females (≥65
years). Moreover, increases in magnesium and retinol intake correlated with HDL
cholesterol improvement only in females (all age groups) and males (35⁻64),
respectively. Finally, a large amount of gender-specific variation was associated
with TG levels. Females demonstrated positive associations with sugar and
carbohydrate while males show inverse associations with polyunsaturated fatty
acid (PUFA) intake. The female-specific association increased with the ratio of
carbohydrate: saturated fatty acid (SFA) intake, suggesting that gender specific 
dietary habits may underlie the observed TG-nutrient correlations. Our study
provides evidence that a subset of previously established nutrient-lipid
associations may be gender or age-specific. Such discoveries provide potential
new avenues for further research into personalized nutritional approaches to
treat dyslipidemia.
EOF
Bioactive compounds such as polyphenols have increased in importance in recent
years, and among them, resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) has
generated great interest as an anti-obesity agent. Recent investigations have
highlighted the importance of leptin signaling in lipid metabolism in peripheral 
organs. The aims of this study were (1) to investigate whether resveratrol can
reduce fat accumulation in peripheral tissues by increasing their leptin
sensitivity and (2) to identify which resveratrol-derived circulating metabolites
are potentially involved in these metabolic effects. Serum leptin levels and the 
leptin signaling pathway were assessed in diet-induced obese rats. Moreover,
serum metabolites of resveratrol were studied by ultra-high performance liquid
chromatography⁻mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MSn). The daily consumption of 200 mg/kg 
of resveratrol, but not doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg, reduced body weight and fat
accumulation in obese rats and restored leptin sensitivity in the periphery.
These effects were due to increases in sirtuin 1 activity in the liver, leptin
receptors in muscle and protection against endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress in
adipose tissue. In general, the resveratrol metabolites associated with these
beneficial effects were derived from both phase II and microbiota metabolism,
although only those derived from microbiota increased proportionally with the
administered dose of resveratrol. In conclusion, resveratrol reversed leptin
resistance caused by diet-induced obesity in peripheral organs using
tissue-specific mechanisms.
EOF
BACKGROUND/AIMS: It has been implicated that calcium supplementation is involved 
in reducing body weight/fat and improving glucose homeostasis. However, the
underlying mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we investigated the
effects of calcium supplementation on adipogenesis and glucose homeostasis in
porcine bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (pBMSCs) and high fat diet (HFD)-fed
mice and explored the involved signaling pathways.
METHODS: In vitro, pBMSCs were treated with 4 mM extracellular calcium ([Ca2+]o) 
and/or 1 μM nifedipine, 0.1 μM BAPTA-AM, 1 μM KN-93, 50 nM wortmannin for 10
days. The intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) levels were measured using Fluo 3-AM by
flow cytometry. The adipogenic differentiation of pBMSCs was determined by Oil
Red-O staining and triglyceride assay. The expression of marker genes involved in
adipogenesis (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and
CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα)) and glucose uptake (glucose
transporter 4 (GLUT4)), as well as the activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent
protein kinase II (CaMKII) and PI3K/Akt-FoxO1/AS160 signaling pathways were
determined by Western blotting. Glucose uptake and utilization were examined
using 2-NBDG assay and glucose content assay, respectively. In vivo, C57BL/6J
male mice were fed a HFD (containing 1.2% calcium) without or with 0.6% (w/w)
calcium chloride in drinking water for 13 weeks. The adipogenesis, glucose
homeostasis and the involvement of CaMKII and PI3K/Akt signaling pathway were
also assessed.
RESULTS: In vitro, [Ca2+]o stimulated pBMSCs adipogenesis by increasing [Ca2+]i
level and activating CaMKII and PI3K/Akt-FoxO1 pathways. In addition, [Ca2+]o
promoted glucose uptake/utilization by enhancing AS160 phosphorylation, GLUT4
expression and translocation. However, the stimulating effects of [Ca2+]o on
pBMSCs adipogenesis and glucose uptake/utilization were abolished by L-VGCC
blocker Nifedipine, [Ca2+]i chelator BAPTA-AM, CaMKII inhibitor KN-93, or PI3K
inhibitor Wortmannin. In vivo, calcium supplementation decreased body weight and 
fat content, increased adipocyte number, and improved glucose homeostasis, with
elevated PPARγ and GLUT4 expression and PI3K/Akt activation in iWAT.
CONCLUSION: calcium supplementation enhanced adipogenesis and glucose uptake in
pBMSCs, which was coincident with the increased adipocyte number and improved
glucose homeostasis in HFD-fed mice, and was associated with activation of CaMKII
and PI3K/Akt-FoxO1/AS160 pathways. These data provided a broader understanding of
the mechanisms underlying calcium-induced body weight/fat loss and glycemic
control.
EOF
Consumption of diets that differ in fat type and amount, and sequestration of
various fatty acids to tissues and organs likely have effects on overall
physiology and metabolic health. However, the contributions of dietary lipids to 
brain-adipose communication and adipose tissue function are poorly understood. We
designed six custom diets that differed only in amount and type of dietary fat,
with high or low levels of saturated fatty acids (SFA), omega-6 polyunsaturated
fatty acids (n-6 PUFA) or omega-3 (n-3) PUFA. Mice fed the n-3 PUFA diet for 16
weeks displayed a striking reduction in weight gain accompanied by smaller
adipose depots and improved glucose sensitivity. Reduced body weight occurred
despite lowered energy expenditure and no difference in food intake. Despite the 
apparent beneficial effects to whole body physiology, we have demonstrated for
the first time that a peroxidized n-3-enriched diet led to lipotoxicity of white 
adipose tissue, as evidenced by increased fibrosis, lipofuscin, reduced
anti-inflammatory markers and loss of proper nerve supply. While healthful, n-3
fats are prone to peroxidation, and we observed peroxidated lipid metabolites in 
the adipose tissue of mice on these diets. Furthermore, using a lipidomics
approach, we have observed that brain, white adipose tissue and brown adipose
tissue accumulate lipid metabolites differently. The brain remained mostly
shielded from changes in dietary fat type and amount, but differences in adipose 
lipid metabolites across these six diets may have affected metabolic function and
brain-adipose communication, as observed in this study.
EOF
Adiposis is reputed as a twin disease of type 2 diabetes and greatly harmful to
human health. In order to understand the molecular mechanisms of adiposis, the
changes of physiological, pathological, epigenetic and correlative gene
expression were investigated during the adiposis development of C57 BL/6J mice
induced by long time (9 months) high-fat and high-sucrose diet (HFSD)
sustainably. The results showed that mRNA transcription level of the Leptin,
Glut4 and Glut2 genes have been obviously changed, which exhibit a negative
correlation with methylation on their promoter DNA. The results also revealed
that HFSD induced higher level of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) in fat tissue
might play important role in regulating the changes of methylation pattern on
Glut4 and Leptin genes, and which might be one of the molecular mechanisms for
the adiposis development.
EOF
Currently, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is still increasing worldwide and
has become a major public health burden.This meta-analysis was performed to
further assess high protein (HP) diet on body weight, glycemic control, and
cardiovascular disease risk factors in type 2 diabetes.A literature search was
conducted in PubMed and Embase databases up to June 2018. The pooled standard
mean difference (SMD) and the corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were
calculated using RevMan 5.3 software.In total, 18 randomized control trials
involving 1099 adults with type 2 diabetes were included. Pooled results
indicated that HP diet could not significantly affect blood pressure of patients 
with type 2 diabetes, compared with low protein (LP) diet. However, the overall
analyses showed the significant effect of HP diet on triglycerides reduction
(SMD = -0.20, 95% CI = -0.35 to -0.05, P = .01) in patients with type 2 diabetes,
compared with LP diet. Subgroup analyses showed that the ratio of energy from fat
and carbohydrate in diet could affect the effect of HP diet on weight and
triglyceride.HP diet could be indicated to obtain beneficial results in weight
loss and lipid metabolism.
EOF
The prevalence of metabolic syndrome components, such as obesity, glucose
intolerance and hepatic steatosis, is rapidly increasing and becoming a major
issue of public health. The present work was designed to determine the effects of
Spirulina platensis (Sp) algae and silicon-enriched Sp on major metabolic
syndrome components in obesogenic diet-fed rats. Forty male Wistar rats were
divided into 4 groups. Ten rats were fed a control diet and 30 rats were fed a
high fat (HF) diet. The HF groups were divided into three groups and supplemented
with placebo or Sp or Si-enriched Sp for 12 weeks. Dietary intake and body weight
were recorded. Oral glucose tolerance test and surrogate metabolic syndrome
(insulin, leptin, adiponectin and lipids), mitochondrial function (enzymatic
activity of respiratory chain complexes and β-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase),
NADPH oxidase activity and several long-established oxidative stress markers were
measured in the blood and liver. The HF diet induced obesity, glucose
intolerance, hepatic steatosis and huge metabolic alterations, associated with
higher NADPH oxidase activity and lower hepatic sulfhydryl group and glutathione 
contents. Otherwise, the Sp and Sp + Si supplements showed some interesting
effects on rat characteristics and particularly on blood and hepatic metabolic
parameters. Indeed, the intake of Sp or Sp + Si mainly improved glucose tolerance
and decreased the enzymatic activity of hepatic NADPH oxidase. Overall, Si
supplementation of spirulina does not appear to have more beneficial effects than
spirulina alone. Other experiments with different species of rats/mice, different
diets or different durations of diet intake should be undertaken to confirm or
invalidate these results.
EOF
Activation of thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP)/nod-like receptor protein 3
(NLRP3) inflammasome plays a critical role in pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty
liver disease. This study investigated the protective effects of verapamil on
hepatic metaflammation in a rodent model of high-fat (HF) diet-induced obesity
(DIO). DIO was induced in a subset of mice provided with HF diet (45% kcal fat). 
After 10 weeks of HF diet, verapamil was administered by intraperitoneal
injection. The experimental groups included the following: (1) normal diet group,
(2) normal diet + treatment with verapamil (VER) group, (3) HF control group, (4)
HF+VER (25 mg/kg/day) group. After 1 week of each treatment, blood and liver
tissues were collected, and glucose control, serum triglyceride (TG) level,
inflammation, and TXNIP/NLRP3 inflammasome were analyzed. Verapamil
administration caused no alteration in food intake. HF diet impaired glucose
control and increased body weight and serum TG levels. Hepatic inflammation was
aggravated in HF-fed mice, as demonstrated by increased levels of
pro-inflammatory markers interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18 in the liver. On the
other hand, verapamil administration significantly improved glucose control, body
weight, and serum TG levels. Verapamil treatment also reduced pro-inflammatory
marker levels. These improvements were accompanied by alterations in activation
of TXNIP/NLRP3 inflammasome. The observed results demonstrate that verapamil
ameliorates hepatic metaflammation by inhibiting TXNIP/NLRP3 pathways.
EOF
The main cause of arteriosclerosis is atherosclerosis in the aorta.
Atherosclerosis is recognized as a chronic inflammatory condition that begins
with the dysfunction or activation of arterial endothelium. Low-density
lipoprotein (LDL) and especially its oxidized form play a key role in endothelial
dysfunction and atherogenesis. Recent studies showed that senescent cells are
involved in the development and progression of atherosclerosis, and eliminating
senescent cells suppresses the senescence-associated secretory phenotype. We
previously reported that molecular hydrogen-rich water (HW) has antioxidant and
anti-inflammatory effects in numerous diseases. Here, we used LDL
receptor-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 13 weeks as a model for
atherosclerosis and evaluated the effects of continuous administration of HW. The
numbers of endothelial cells in the atheroma expressing the senescence factors
p16INK4a and p21 decreased in HFD-fed mice given HW compared with HFD-fed mice
given control water. Furthermore, macrophage infiltration and Tnfα expression in 
the atheroma were also suppressed. These results suggest that vascular aging can 
be suppressed by HW.
EOF
The aim of the present research was to Study the prevention of dyslipidemia,
oxidative stress, inflammation and fatty liver as risk factors for cardiovascular
disease via intervention by borage oil (B) and fish oil (F) with or without
turmeric (T) and alpha-tocopherols (TC). Fatty acids were assessed in both oils
while curcuminoids were determined in turmeric. Rats were divided into; first
group fed on balanced diet and designated as normal control (NC), second fed on
dyslipidemic and steatohepatitis (DS) inducer diet which represented the DS
control group and groups 3-6 fed on DS inducer diet with daily oral
administration of B, B+T+TC, F and F+T+TC; respectively for 5 weeks. Liver fat
and plasma lipid profile, oxidative stress and inflammatory biomarker and liver
and heart histopathology were assessed. Results showed gamma linolenic to be
21.01% in B. F contained eicosapentaenoic as 22.768% and docosahexaenoic acid as 
13.574%.Total curcuminoids were 4.63 mg/g turmeric. The DS control group showed
significant dyslipidemia, elevated malondialdehyde (MDA), tumor necrosis
factor-alpha and liver fat with significant reduction in total antioxidant
capacity (TAC) compared to NC. The different treatments produced significant
improvement in all the parameters and histopathology. F was superior to B in
ameliorating liver histopathological changes while B was more efficient in
elevating TAC. B was more promising in improving lipid profile and liver fat
compared to B + T + TC, while the latter was superior in improving MDA and liver 
histopathology. Fish oil was more efficient than F+TC+T except for TAC and high
density lipoprotein cholesterol which were more improved on addition of TC and T.
Conclusion: Borage and fish oil with or without antioxidants protect from
cardiovascular and fatty liver diseases with variable degrees.
EOF
Obesity is characterized by accumulation of adipose tissue and is one the most
important risk factors in the development of insulin resistance. Carbon
monoxide-releasing (CO-releasing) molecules (CO-RMs) have been reported to
improve the metabolic profile of obese mice, but the underlying mechanism remains
poorly defined. Here, we show that oral administration of CORM-401 to obese mice 
fed a high-fat diet (HFD) resulted in a significant reduction in body weight
gain, accompanied by a marked improvement in glucose homeostasis. We further
unmasked an action we believe to be novel, by which CO accumulates in visceral
adipose tissue and uncouples mitochondrial respiration in adipocytes, ultimately 
leading to a concomitant switch toward glycolysis. This was accompanied by
enhanced systemic and adipose tissue insulin sensitivity, as indicated by a lower
blood glucose and increased Akt phosphorylation. Our findings indicate that the
transient uncoupling activity of CO elicited by repetitive administration of
CORM-401 is associated with lower weight gain and increased insulin sensitivity
during HFD. Thus, prototypic compounds that release CO could be investigated for 
developing promising insulin-sensitizing agents.
EOF
The behaviour of a nursing dam influences the development, physiology, and
behaviour of her offspring. Maternal behaviours can be modulated both by
environmental factors, including diet, and by physical or behavioural
characteristics of the offspring. In most studies of the effects of the
environment on maternal behaviour, F0 dams nurse their own F1 offspring. Because 
the F1 are indirectly exposed to the environmental stressor in utero in these
studies, it is not possible to differentiate between effects on maternal
behaviour from direct exposure of the dam and those mediated by changes in the F1
as a consequence of in utero exposure. In this study, we used a mouse model of
high-fat (HF) diet feeding, which has been shown to influence maternal
behaviours, combined with cross-fostering to discriminate between these effects. 
We tested whether the diet of the F0 dam or the exposure experienced by the F1
pups in utero is the most significant predictor of maternal behaviour. Neither
factor significantly influenced pup retrieval behaviours. However, strikingly, F1
in utero exposure was a significant predictor of maternal behaviour in the 15 min
immediately following pup retrieval while F0 diet had no discernable effect. Our 
findings suggest that in utero exposure to HF diet programmes physiological
changes in the offspring which influence the maternal behaviours of their dam
after birth.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of diets varying in carbohydrate to fat ratio
on total energy expenditure.
DESIGN: Randomized trial.
SETTING: Multicenter collaboration at US two sites, August 2014 to May 2017.
PARTICIPANTS: 164 adults aged 18-65 years with a body mass index of 25 or more.
INTERVENTIONS: After 12% (within 2%) weight loss on a run-in diet, participants
were randomly assigned to one of three test diets according to carbohydrate
content (high, 60%, n=54; moderate, 40%, n=53; or low, 20%, n=57) for 20 weeks.
Test diets were controlled for protein and were energy adjusted to maintain
weight loss within 2 kg. To test for effect modification predicted by the
carbohydrate-insulin model, the sample was divided into thirds of pre-weight loss
insulin secretion (insulin concentration 30 minutes after oral glucose).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was total energy expenditure, measured
with doubly labeled water, by intention-to-treat analysis. Per protocol analysis 
included participants who maintained target weight loss, potentially providing a 
more precise effect estimate. Secondary outcomes were resting energy expenditure,
measures of physical activity, and levels of the metabolic hormones leptin and
ghrelin.
RESULTS: Total energy expenditure differed by diet in the intention-to-treat
analysis (n=162, P=0.002), with a linear trend of 52 kcal/d (95% confidence
interval 23 to 82) for every 10% decrease in the contribution of carbohydrate to 
total energy intake (1 kcal=4.18 kJ=0.00418 MJ). Change in total energy
expenditure was 91 kcal/d (95% confidence interval -29 to 210) greater in
participants assigned to the moderate carbohydrate diet and 209 kcal/d (91 to
326) greater in those assigned to the low carbohydrate diet compared with the
high carbohydrate diet. In the per protocol analysis (n=120, P<0.001), the
respective differences were 131 kcal/d (-6 to 267) and 278 kcal/d (144 to 411).
Among participants in the highest third of pre-weight loss insulin secretion, the
difference between the low and high carbohydrate diet was 308 kcal/d in the
intention-to-treat analysis and 478 kcal/d in the per protocol analysis
(P<0.004). Ghrelin was significantly lower in participants assigned to the low
carbohydrate diet compared with those assigned to the high carbohydrate diet
(both analyses). Leptin was also significantly lower in participants assigned to 
the low carbohydrate diet (per protocol).
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with the carbohydrate-insulin model, lowering dietary
carbohydrate increased energy expenditure during weight loss maintenance. This
metabolic effect may improve the success of obesity treatment, especially among
those with high insulin secretion.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02068885.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Lipid dysregulation is a classical risk factor for cardiovascular
disease (CVD), yet scanty evidence existed regarding cardiac lipid metabolism
that is directly related to heart damage. Recently, the relationship between
dyslipidemia and pro-inflammatory insults has led to further understanding on the
CVD-predisposing effects of dyslipidemia. The aims of the present study were to
investigate whether high-fat high-cholesterol (HFHC) diet-induced hyperlipidemia 
would cause heart damage and to study the potential role of local cardiac lipid
dysregulation in the occurrence of cellular injury.
METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into normal chow or HFHC diet
groups, and sacrificed after 2 or 4 weeks, respectively. Lipid peroxidation
marker level was measured. Lipid parameters in the rat hearts were detected.
Cardiac damage was evaluated.
RESULTS: HFHC diet increased serum levels of cholesterol and free fatty acids
(FFAs) and led to systemic oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory status. Cardiac 
lipid dysregulation, which was characterized by elevated levels of cholesterol
and adipocyte (A)- and heart (H)-fatty acid binding proteins (FABPs), occurred
after HFHC diet for 4 weeks. Cardiac damage was further evident with elevated
circulating H-FABP levels, increased cardiac interstitial fibrosis and the loss
of troponin I.
CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrated that HFHC diet led to systemic and cardiac
lipid dysregulation, accompanied by systemic oxidative and pro-inflammatory
stresses, and these may finally cooperate to cause a series of pathological
changes of the heart tissue. Our findings suggest that maintenance of lipid
regulation may be essential in the prevention of heart damage.
EOF
BACKGROUND: We have previously reported that ingestion of adenosine (ADN) and
adenosine-5'-monophosphate (AMP) improves abnormal glucose metabolism in the
stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat model of non-obesity-associated
insulin resistance. In this study, we investigated the effect of ADN and AMP
ingestion on glucose metabolism in mice with high-fat diet-induced obesity.
METHODS: Seven-week-old C57BL/6 J mice were administered distilled water (as a
control), 10 mg/L ADN, or 13 mg/L AMP via their drinking water for 14 or
25 weeks, during which they were fed a high-fat diet. Oral glucose tolerance test
(OGTT) was conducted on 21-week-old mice fasted for 16 h. Insulin tolerance test 
(ITT) was performed on 22-week-old mice fasted for 3 h. Blood and muscle were
collected for further analysis of serum parameters, gene and protein expression
levels, respectively.
RESULTS: Glucose metabolism in the ADN and AMP groups was significantly improved 
compared with the control. OGTT and ITT showed that ADN and AMP groups lower than
control group. Furthermore, phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase
(AMPK) and mRNA levels of genes involved in lipid oxidation were enhanced in the 
skeletal muscle of ADN- and AMP-treated mice.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that ingestion of ADN or AMP induces
activation of AMPK in skeletal muscle and mitigates insulin resistance in mice
with high-fat diet-induced diabetes.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Childhood obesity tracks into adulthood with detrimental effects on
health. We aimed to examine the relationships of diet in childcare settings and
daily physical activity (PA) of preschoolers with body mass index z-score
(z-BMI).
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of 150 children aged 2-4-years
participating in the Nutrition and Physical Activity Self-Assessment for Child
Care (NAP SACC) UK study to examine the associations of their diet in childcare
settings and daily PA with z-BMI. Dietary intake was observed and recorded by
fieldworkers using a validated tick-list food questionnaire and diet quality was 
assessed based on adherence to Children's Food Trust (CFT) guidelines. PA was
measured using accelerometers. We derived z-BMI scores using the UK 1990 and
International Obesity Taskforce growth reference charts. Multilevel regression
models were used to estimate associations between diet and PA with z-BMI
separately, adjusted for age, gender, ethnicity, parental education level and
clustering.
RESULTS: Among children who consumed one main meal or snack at childcare, 34.4%
and 74.3% met the standards on fruits and vegetables and high sugar or fat
snacks, respectively. Adherence to CFT guidelines was not associated with zBMI.
Only 11.4% of children met recommended UK guidelines of three hours per day of
physical activity. Minutes spent in light PA (β = 0.08, 95% CI = 0.01, 0.15) and 
active time (β = 0.07, 95% CI = 0.01, 0.12) were positively associated with UK
1990 zBMI scores.
CONCLUSIONS: The low proportion of children meeting the standards on fruits and
vegetables and high sugar or fat snacks and recommended physical activity levels 
highlight the need for more work to support nurseries and parents to improve
preschool children's diet and activity. In our exploratory analyses, we found
children with higher zBMI were more physically active which could be attributed
to fat-free mass or chance finding and so requires replication in a larger study.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN16287377 . Registered 12 June 2014.
EOF
Increasing evidence suggests that the gut microbiota plays vital roles in
metabolic diseases. Polygonatum odoratum extract alleviates hyperglycemia and
hyperlipidemia, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study
investigated the effects of P. odoratum polysaccharides (POPs) on high-fat diet
(HFD)-induced obesity in rats and whether these effects were related to
modulation of gut microbiota. POP treatment attenuated weight gain, fat
accumulation, epididymal adipocyte size, liver triglycerides, and total liver
cholesterol content in HFD-fed rats. POP administration also increased
short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), including isobutyric acid, butyric acid, and
valeric acid. POP upregulated the expression of genes involved in adipocyte
differentiation (Pparg, Cebpa, Cebpb) and lipolysis (Ppara, Atgl), and
downregulated those related to lipid synthesis (Srebpf1, Fabp4, Fas), with
corresponding changes in PPARγ and FABP4 protein expression. Finally, POP
enhanced species richness and improved the gut microbiota community structure,
reducing the relative abundances of Clostridium, Enterococcus, Coprobacillus,
Lactococcus, and Sutterella. Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) revealed a
clear separation between HFD-fed rats and all other treatment groups. Correlation
analysis identified negative and positive associations between obesity phenotypes
and 28 POP-influenced operational taxonomic units (OTUs), including putative
SCFA-producing bacteria. Our data suggest that POP supplementation may attenuate 
features of obesity in HFD-fed rats in association with the modulation of gut
microbiota.
EOF
Programming is triggered through events during critical developmental phases that
alter offspring health outcomes. High fat programming is defined as the
maintenance on a high fat diet during fetal and/or early postnatal life that
induces metabolic and physiological alterations that compromise health. The
maternal nutritional status, including the dietary fatty acid composition, during
gestation and/or lactation, are key determinants of fetal and postnatal
development. A maternal high fat diet and obesity during gestation compromises
the maternal metabolic state and, through high fat programming, presents an
unfavorable intrauterine milieu for fetal growth and development thereby
conferring adverse cardiac outcomes to offspring. Stressors on the heart, such as
a maternal high fat diet and obesity, alter the expression of cardiac-specific
factors that alter cardiac structure and function. The proper nutritional
balance, including the fatty acid balance, particularly during developmental
windows, are critical for maintaining cardiac structure, preserving cardiac
function and enhancing the cardiac response to metabolic challenges.
EOF
Gluten seems a potentially important determinant in type 1 diabetes (T1D) and
type 2 diabetes (T2D). Intake of gluten, a major component of wheat, rye, and
barley, affects the microbiota and increases the intestinal permeability.
Moreover, studies have demonstrated that gluten peptides, after crossing the
intestinal barrier, lead to a more inflammatory milieu. Gluten peptides enter the
pancreas where they affect the morphology and might induce beta-cell stress by
enhancing glucose- and palmitate-stimulated insulin secretion. Interestingly,
animal studies and a human study have demonstrated that a gluten-free (GF) diet
during pregnancy reduces the risk of T1D. Evidence regarding the role of a GF
diet in T2D is less clear. Some studies have linked intake of a GF diet to
reduced obesity and T2D and suggested a role in reducing leptin- and
insulin-resistance and increasing beta-cell volume. The current knowledge
indicates that gluten, among many environmental factors, may be an
aetiopathogenic factors for development of T1D and T2D. However, human
intervention trials are needed to confirm this and the proposed mechanisms.
EOF
This study was aimed to explore the role of C1q/TNF-related protein 9 (CTRP9) on 
atherosclerotic lesion formation. A recombinant lentiviral vector carrying mouse 
CTRP9 (Lv-CTRP9) was injected intravenously into apolipoprotein E knockout
(ApoE-/-) mice given a high-fat diet (HFD). CTRP9 overexpression substantially
attenuated atherosclerotic lesion size of mice. The accumulation of macrophages
and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) was significantly decreased in atherosclerotic
regions with CTRP9 overexpression by immunohistochemical analysis. In addition,
CTRP9 downregulated the expressions of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)
and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), two main proinflammatory cytokines in
atherosclerosis. Furthermore, the autophagy level remarkably increased which was 
presented by microtubule-associated protein light chain 3B (LC3B) conversion and 
sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1/p62) degradation. Further study showed that CTRP9
increased adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation
and decreased mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) phosphorylation in vivo. These
observations reveal that CTRP9 exerts a protecting role in early atherosclerotic 
lesions and its anti-atherosclerotic effect is associated with autophagy
induction through AMPK/mTOR signaling pathway.
EOF
AIMS: Diabetes prevention interventions have been less successful in Asian
Indians compared to other populations, which may be due in part to dietary
differences. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of a
diabetes prevention intervention on diet and risk of diabetes in Asian Indians at
high risk.
METHODS: Data were included from the Diabetes Community Lifestyle Improvement
Program (D-CLIP), a randomized control trial to prevent diabetes in
overweight/obese Asian Indian adults (20-65 years) with prediabetes. Respondents 
received standard treatment (control; n = 283) or a 6-month intervention
(n = 295) that included education and support to reduce intakes of fat and total 
calories (kilocalories; kcal). Diet was ascertained using a food frequency
questionnaire, and incident diabetes was determined from annual 2-h plasma
glucose post-oral glucose tolerance test or biannual fasting plasma glucose.
RESULTS: There were 485 (control 240; intervention 245) respondents with complete
diet data at baseline. At 6 months, the intervention was associated with
decreased intake of total energy (- 185.6 kcal/day; 95% CI - 353.6,
- 17.5 kcal/day) and refined cereals (- 7.2 g/1000 kcal; 95% CI - 12.7,
- 1.7 g/1000 kcal), and increased intakes of fruits and vegetables
(33.4 g/1000 kcal; 95% CI 16.0, 50.8 g/1000 kcal). The intervention group was
half (HR 0.49; 95% CI 0.25, 0.94) as likely to develop diabetes at 1 year, and
the hazard was significantly attenuated (12.2%; P = 0.015) with adjustment for
fruits and vegetable intake.
CONCLUSION: The D-CLIP decreased the total energy intake and increased the
intakes of fruits and vegetables, and reduced the 1-year incidence of diabetes by
half.
EOF
The present data article aims at investigating the muscular levels of Irisin,
FNDC5, and UCP1 in male Wistar rats during the aerobic exercise with or without
calorie restriction (CR). Twenty four, 8-week-old male Wistar rats (190±16 g)
were selected and purchased for the research. After obesity induction by high-fat
diet, the animals were randomly divided into three groups: exercise EX (n = 8),
EX-CR (n = 8) and CO as control (n = 8). EX exercised 6 sessions per week and
EXCR exercise 3 sessions + 3 days caloric restriction per week. The Irisin
(Cat.No:CK-E91266 & Intra-Assay: CV<10%), FNDC5 (Cat.No:CK-E91393 & Intra-Assay: 
CV<10%) levels were assessed by the special Rat ELISA Kit (EASTBIOPHARM, China,
under licensed by the United States). Muscular Irisin concentrations in EX group 
were higher than other groups. In addition, FNDC5 concentrations in EX group was 
higher than those in other groups.
EOF
Tilapia is susceptible to hepatic steatosis when grown in intensive farming
systems. The aim of this study was to explore the mechanism of fatty liver
induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) in genetically improved farmed tilapia (GIFT,
Oreochromis niloticus). Juvenile GIFT were fed with HFD or a normal-fat diet
(NFD) for 60 days. Substantial fat deposition in the liver of HFD-fed GIFT on
days 20, 40, and 60 was observed using hematoxylin - eosin staining and oil red O
staining. The increased fat deposition was consistent with increased triglyceride
(TG) and total cholesterol (TC) levels in the liver of HFD-fed GIFT. There were
significant differences (P < 0.05) in serum biochemical indexes (TG, TC, low
density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and insulin contents, and alanine
aminotransferase activity) between GIFT fed a HFD and GIFT fed a NFD on days 20, 
40, and 60. Furthermore, 60 days of a HFD significantly changed (P < 0.05) the
hepatic fatty acid composition, and led to increased polyunsaturated fatty acid
levels and decreased saturated fatty acid and monounsaturated fatty acid levels. 
Hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities increased by day 20 and then declined,
which led to an increase in malondialdehyde contents in the liver of HFD-fed
GIFT. Molecular analyses revealed that the microRNAs miR-122, miR-29a, and
miR-145-5p were upregulated, whereas miR-34a was downregulated in HFD-fed GIFT.
SCD, ELOVL6, and SRD5A2 encode three important enzymes in lipid metabolism, and
were identified as potential targets of miRNAs. The transcript levels of hepatic 
SCD and ELOVL6 were decreased and that of hepatic SRD5A2 was increased in GIFT
fed a HFD. Overall, the results of this study revealed a potential link between
miRNAs and fatty liver induced by HFD, and suggest that a HFD could lead to
excess fat deposition in the GIFT liver, which may disrupt hepatic lipid
metabolism and reduce the antioxidant defense capacity.
EOF
Background: The nucleotide-binding and oligomerization domain-like receptor
protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome composed of NLRP3, apoptosis-associated speck-like
protein containing CARD (ASC), and caspase-1 is engaged in the inflammatory
response of many kidney diseases and can be activated by purinergic 2X7 receptor 
(P2X7R). This study was conducted to explore whether P2X7R plays a pathogenic
role in the podocyte damage of obesity-related glomerulopathy (ORG) and whether
this role is mediated by the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome.
Methods: A mouse model of ORG was established by high-fat diet feeding. The
conditionally immortalized mouse podocytes were cultured with leptin or with
leptin and P2X7R antagonist (KN-62 or A438079). The mRNA and protein expression
of the P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome components including NLRP3, ASC, and
caspase-1, as well as the podocyte-associated molecules including nephrin,
podocin, and desmin in mouse renal cortex or cultured mouse podocytes were tested
by real-time-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis, respectively.
Results: The significantly upregulated expression of P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome
components and the NLRP3 inflammasome activation were observed in the renal
cortex (in fact their location in podocytes was proved by confocal microscopy) of
ORG mice in vivo, which were accompanied with the morphological changes of
podocyte damage and the expression changes of podocyte-associated molecules.
Similar changes in the expression of P2X7R and NLRP3 inflammasome components as
well as in the expression of podocyte-associated molecules were also observed in 
the cultured podocyte studies treated by leptin in vitro, and all of the above
changes were significantly attenuated by the P2X7R antagonist KN-62 or A438079.
Conclusions: P2X7R could trigger the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome, and the
activated P2X7R/NLRP3 inflammasome in podocytes might be involved in the podocyte
damage of ORG.
EOF
Berries of Aronia melanocarpa (chokeberry) are known to be a rich source of
biologically active polyphenols. In the present study, the effects of seven
anti-adipogenic polyphenolic phytochemicals isolated from A. melanocarpa methanol
extract on adipogenic transcription factors were investigated. Amygdalin and
prunasin were found to inhibit 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation by suppressing
the expressions of PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ), C/EBPα
(CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α), SREBP1c (sterol regulatory element binding
protein 1c), FAS (fatty acid synthase), and aP2 (adipocyte fatty-acid⁻binding
protein). A. melanocarpa extract-treated (100 or 200 mg/kg/day on body weight)
high fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice showed significant decreases in body
weight, serum triglyceride (TG), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC)
levels and improved insulin sensitivity as compared with HFD controls. This
research shows A. melanocarpa extract is potentially beneficial for the
suppression of HFD-induced obesity.
EOF
The aim of the current study was to elucidate the effects of long-term
supplementation with dietary ursolic acid (UR) on obesity and associated
comorbidities by analyzing transcriptional and metabolic responses, focusing on
the role of UR in the modulation of the circadian rhythm pathway in particular.
C57BL/6J mice were divided into three groups and fed a normal diet, high-fat
diet, or high-fat + 0.05% (w/w) UR diet for 16 weeks. Oligonucleotide microarray 
profiling revealed that UR is an effective regulator of the liver transcriptome, 
and canonical pathways associated with the "circadian rhythm" and "extracellular 
matrix (ECM)⁻receptor interactions" were effectively regulated by UR in the
liver. UR altered the expression of various clock and clock-controlled genes
(CCGs), which may be linked to the improvement of hepatic steatosis and fibrosis 
via lipid metabolism control and detoxification enhancement. UR reduced excessive
reactive oxygen species production, adipokine/cytokine dysregulation, and ECM
accumulation in the liver, which also contributed to improve hepatic lipotoxicity
and fibrosis. Moreover, UR improved pancreatic islet dysfunction, and suppressed 
hepatic gluconeogenesis, thereby reducing obesity-associated insulin resistance. 
Therapeutic approaches targeting hepatic circadian clock and CCGs using UR may
ameliorate the deleterious effects of diet-induced obesity and associated
complications such as hepatic fibrosis.
EOF
The burden of preventable diet-related diseases is significant and becoming
worse. Thus, accurately assessing food intake is crucial to guide public health
policies and actions. Using food dietary recalls, we evaluated usual dietary
intake according to physical activity and nutritional status in an adult urban
population from Brasília, Brazil. The usual nutrient and energy intakes
distributions were estimated using the Iowa State University (ISU) method. Energy
and nutrient intakes were stratified by gender, age group, body mass index (BMI),
and physical activity (PA). The prevalence of inadequate intake was highest for
vitamins E and D. Both men and women had excessive sodium intake. The percentage 
of intakes below daily serving recommendations for food groups were 96% for
cereals, 74% for vegetables, and 87% for dairy products, whereas percentage of
intakes above daily serving recommendations were 97% for meat, 93% for pulses,
and 99% for fat/oils. Energy and nutrient intakes were highest in overweight and 
physically active individuals within the categories of BMI and physical activity,
respectively. Our study found that high-income urban Brazilians consume large
quantities of meat, beans, fat/oils, and exhibit a low prevalence of nutrient
inadequacies but have excessive sodium intake. Energy and nutrient intakes are
highest among men, as well as overweight and physically active individuals.
EOF
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common complication of 
pregnancy, but the mechanisms underlying the disorders remain unclear. The study 
aimed to identify mRNA and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) profiles in placenta and 
gonadal fat of pregnant mice fed a high-fat diet and to investigate the
transcripts and pathways involved in the development of gestational diabetes
mellitus.
METHODS: Deep and broad transcriptome profiling was performed to assess the
expression of mRNAs and lncRNAs in placenta and gonadal fat from 3 mice fed an
HFD and chow during pregnancy. Then, differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs
were validated by quantitative real-time PCR. The function of the differentially 
expressed mRNAs was determined by pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses, and
the physical or functional relationships between the lncRNAs and the
corresponding mRNAs were determined.
RESULTS: Our study revealed that 82 mRNAs and 52 lncRNAs were differentially
expressed in the placenta of mice fed an HFD during pregnancy, and 202 mRNAs and 
120 lncRNAs were differentially expressed in gonadal fat. GO and Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses revealed differentially
expressed mRNAs of placenta were closely related to extracellular matrix
interactions, digestion, adhesion, and metabolism, whereas the differentially
expressed mRNAs in adipose tissue were related to metabolic and insulin
signalling pathways. The gene network demonstrated that Actg2, Cnfn, Muc16,
Serpina3k, NONMMUT068202, and NONMMUT068203, were the core of the network in
placental tissue, and the genes Tkt, Acss2, and Elovl6 served as the core of the 
network in gonadal fat tissue.
CONCLUSION: These newly identified key genes and pathways in mice might provide
valuable information regarding the pathogenesis of GDM and might be used to
improve early diagnosis, prevention, drug design, and clinical treatment.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To discuss the cardiac toxicities of a heat waves and ozone exposure
on cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and explore a possible mechanism.
METHODS: The incidence of ozone exposure combined with heat wave was simulated in
the Shanghai Meteorological and Environmental Animal Exposure System
(Shanghai-METAS). A total of 64 ApoE-/- mice, matched by weight, were randomly
divided into 8 groups and exposed to heat wave conditions or ozone. The levels of
creatine kinase (CK), D-lactate dehydrogenase (D-LDH), intercellular adhesion
molecule 1 (sICAM-1), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), nitric oxide (NO),
endothelin-1 (ET-1), D-dimer (D2D), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and
blood lipid in plasma and heat shock protein-60 (HSP60), hypoxia inducible factor
1 alpha (HIF-1α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), C-reactive protein (CRP), superoxide
dismutase (SOD), and malondialdehyde (MDA) in hearts were measured after
exposure.
RESULTS: The levels of all indicators, except for SOD, increased with the
ozone-only exposure. However, cardiac damage was most significant when the heat
wave conditions were combined with severe ozone exposure. Moreover, the levels of
CK, D-LDH, NO, PAI-1, sICAM-1, and TNF-α in plasma increased significantly (P <
0.05), and the contents of HSP60, HIF-1α, CRP, and MDA in hearts increased
considerably (P < 0.05), but the activity of SOD decreased significantly. In
addition, the levels of four blood lipid items remarkably increased (except the
level of HDL-C which decreased significantly) with ozone exposure.
CONCLUSION: A short-term exposure to a heat wave and ozone causes severe toxic
effects on the heart. Cardiac damage was most significant under combined heat
wave and severe ozone exposure simulations.
EOF
BACKGROUND: While complications of deep inferior epigastric artery perforator
flaps are known and well documented, a thorough literature review revealed no
other reports of a patient developing a chyle leak following the use of the
internal mammary vessels for recipient vessels in autologous breast
reconstruction.
CASE: A 55-year-old woman underwent free autologous breast reconstruction. She
developed a chyle leak during the postoperative period. This was verified through
a computed tomography scan and fluid analysis demonstrating a high triglyceride
count and the presence of chylomicrons. The leak resolved with conservative
measures including compression and a low-fat, high-protein diet.
DISCUSSION: The presence of chyle leak following dissection of the internal
mammary vessels is a unique complication of autologous breast reconstruction.
There have been reports of lymph leaks following mastectomy, but these are mostly
reported in the axilla. A history of radiation to the contralateral breast and
aberrant anatomy may have contributed to the complication. Treatment of chyle
leaks ranges from conservative management to the use of total parenteral
nutrition and somatostatin analogs to surgical intervention.
CONCLUSION: While altering practice patterns based on a single case is not
usually suggested, this complication does intimate that dealing with lymphatic
vessels and lymph nodes in the chest should be done deliberately to prevent
lymphatic leaks.
EOF
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a type I transmembrane glycoprotein widely
studied for its role as the source of β-amyloid peptide, accumulation of which is
causal in at least some cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). APP is expressed
ubiquitously and is involved in diverse biological processes. Growing bodies of
evidence indicate connections between AD and somatic metabolic disorders related 
to type 2 diabetes, and App-/- mice show alterations in glycemic regulation. We
find that App-/- mice have higher levels of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) mRNA, 
protein, and activity compared with wild-type controls. This regulation of IDE by
APP was widespread across numerous tissues, including liver, skeletal muscle, and
brain as well as cell types within neural tissue, including neurons, astrocytes, 
and microglia. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of APP in the SIM-A9 microglia
cell line elevated IDE levels. Fasting levels of blood insulin were lower in
App-/- than App+/+ mice, but the former showed a larger increase in response to
glucose. These low basal levels may enhance peripheral insulin sensitivity, as
App-/- mice failed to develop impairment of glucose tolerance on a high-fat,
high-sucrose ("Western") diet. Insulin levels and insulin signaling were also
lower in the App-/- brain; synaptosomes prepared from App-/- hippocampus showed
diminished insulin receptor phosphorylation compared with App+/+ mice when
stimulated ex vivo. These findings represent a new molecular link connecting APP 
to metabolic homeostasis and demonstrate a novel role for APP as an upstream
regulator of IDE in vivo.
EOF
Increased circulating branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) have been involved in
the pathogenesis of obesity and insulin resistance (IR). However, evidence
relating berberine (BBR), gut microbiota, BCAAs, and IR is limited. Here, we
showed that BBR could effectively rectify steatohepatitis and glucose intolerance
in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. BBR reorganized gut microbiota populations under
both the normal chow diet (NCD) and HFD. Particularly, BBR noticeably decreased
the relative abundance of BCAA-producing bacteria, including order Clostridiales;
families Streptococcaceae, Clostridiaceae, and Prevotellaceae; and genera
Streptococcus and Prevotella. Compared with the HFD group, predictive
metagenomics indicated a reduction in the proportion of gut microbiota genes
involved in BCAA biosynthesis but the enrichment genes for BCAA degradation and
transport by BBR treatment. Accordingly, the elevated serum BCAAs of HFD group
were significantly decreased by BBR. Furthermore, the Western blotting results
implied that BBR could promote the BCAA catabolism in the liver and epididymal
white adipose tissues of HFD-fed mice by activation of the multienzyme
branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKDC), whereas by inhibition of
the phosphorylation state of BCKDHA (E1α subunit) and branched-chain α-ketoacid
dehydrogenase kinase (BCKDK). The ex vivo assay further confirmed that BBR could 
increase BCAA catabolism in both AML12 hepatocytes and 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
Finally, data from healthy subjects and diabetics confirmed that BBR could
improve glycemic control and modulate circulating BCAAs. Together, our findings
clarified BBR improving IR associated not only with gut microbiota alteration in 
BCAA biosynthesis but also with BCAA catabolism in liver and adipose tissues.
EOF
The endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of glomerular vascular
endothelial cells is considered to be pivotal in diabetic nephropathy (DN). The
risk of DN can be decreased by losartan, but the potential molecular mechanism(s)
are not fully understood. Extensive data show that the EMT occurs in proximal
tubular endothelial cells resulting in an endothelial phenotype switch (fibrotic 
matrix accumulation), consequently enhancing the development of renal
interstitial fibrosis. Here, we found that losartan significantly ameliorated
DN-induced renal fibrosis progression via inhibition of the EMT in mice. In vivo 
experiments suggested that losartan significantly alleviated microalbuminuria and
pathologic changes under high-fat diet-induced hyperglycemia.
Immunohistochemistry indicated that losartan suppressed the EMT in glomeruli. In 
addition, losartan decreased oxidative stress damage and inhibited the
transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1/Smad pathway. Furthermore, consistent changes
were detected in vitro where losartan markedly inhibited the EMT and TGF-β1/Smad 
pathway induced by high glucose in glomerular endothelial cells. Together, these 
results suggested that losartan could alleviate the EMT in glomeruli via
inhibition of oxidative stress damage and the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway under
hyperglycemia.
EOF
Continuous estrogen signaling is thought to be the main mechanism causing
endometrial cancer (EC). Studies have demonstrated that CD163+ macrophages could 
promote the development of estrogen-dependent EC, but the mechanisms involved
remain unclear. We found that CD163+ macrophages were the dominant macrophages in
atypical endometrial hyperplasia and cancer, and their infiltration was
positively associated with ERα expression. CD163+ macrophages mainly increased
ERα protein levels but with little upregulatory effect on ESR1 (ERα coding gene) 
transcripts. The ubiquitin-editing enzyme A20, screened from the endometrial
microarray obtained from mice receiving a high-fat diet and sustained
estrogen-intervened, was highly expressed in endometrial lesions rich with CD163+
macrophages, and positively correlated with ERα expression. Similarly, A20 and
ERα were both upregulated by CD163+ macrophages via cytokines such as IL1α, IL17A
and TNFα. Mechanistically, A20 overexpression in EC cells prolonged ERα protein
half-life without affecting ESR1 transcripts. A20 increased functional ERα
protein levels and enhanced estrogen-driven EC cell proliferation through
preventing ERα protein degradation by its deubiquitinase activity. Our study
revealed that A20-mediated deubiquitination of ERα might be an important
mechanism by which CD163+ macrophages sensitize EC cells to estrogen.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Akkermansia muciniphila (AM) is a gram-negative, mucin-degrading
bacteria inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract associated with host phenotypes
and disease states.
OBJECTIVE: Explore characteristics of overweight and obese female early-stage (0 
to II) breast cancer patients with low AM relative abundance (LAM) vs high (HAM) 
enrolled in a presurgical weight-loss trial.
DESIGN: Secondary analysis of pooled participants in a randomized controlled
trial (NCT02224807).
PARTICIPANTS/SETTING: During the period from 2014 to 2017, 32 female patients
with breast cancer were randomized to weight-loss or attention-control arms from 
time of diagnosis-to-lumpectomy (mean=30±9 days).
INTERVENTION: All were instructed to correct nutrient deficiencies via food
sources and on upper-body exercises. The weight-loss group received additional
guidance to promote 0.5 to 1 kg/wk weight-loss via energy restriction and aerobic
exercise.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: At baseline and follow-up, sera, fecal samples, two-24
hour dietary recalls and dual x-ray absorptiometry were obtained. Bacterial DNA
was isolated from feces and polymerase chain reaction (16S) amplified.
Inflammatory cytokines were measured in sera.
STATISTICAL ANALYSES PERFORMED: Differences between LAM and HAM participants were
analyzed using t tests and nonparametric tests. Spearman correlations explored
relationships between continuous variables.
RESULTS: Participants were aged 61±9 years with body mass index 34.8±6. Mean AM
relative abundance was 0.02% (0.007% to 0.06%) and 1.59% (0.59% to 13.57%) for
LAM and HAM participants, respectively. At baseline, women with HAM vs LAM had
lower fat mass (38.9±11.2 kg vs 46.4±9.0 kg; P=0.044). Alpha diversity (ie,
species richness) was higher in women with HAM (360.8±84.8 vs 282.4±69.6;
P=0.008) at baseline, but attenuated after weight-loss (P=0.058). At baseline,
interleukin-6 level was associated with species richness (ρ=-0.471, P=0.008) and 
fat mass (ρ=0.529, P=0.002), but not AM. Change in total dietary fiber was
positively associated with AM in LAM (ρ=0.626, P=0.002), but not HAM (ρ=0.436,
P=0.180) participants.
CONCLUSIONS: Among women with early-stage breast cancer, body composition is
associated with AM, microbiota diversity, and interleukin-6 level. AM may mediate
the effects of dietary fiber in improving microbiota composition.
EOF
BACKGROUND: One anastomosis gastric bypass (OAGB) is a modern metabolic operation
that has been demonstrated to be a rapid, safe, and effective procedure. As for
other bariatric operations, the mechanisms and long-term effects of this
procedure remain largely unknown and are difficult to address in human studies.
Here, we present a new physiologic mouse model for mechanistic and long-term
investigations.
METHODS: Six-week-old C57Bl/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet for 12 weeks and
scheduled for OAGB or sham operation. Mice were observed for 2 weeks after the
operation, and weight and metabolic condition were monitored.
RESULTS: Six mice were used to adapt the surgical technique. Afterwards, another 
7 mice were scheduled for OAGB without further complications. The newly
established OAGB procedure resulted in significant weight loss and improvement of
glucose metabolism 2 weeks after the operation.
CONCLUSIONS: The operation presented here is an easy-to-learn and physiologic
mouse model of OAGB that can be used for further studies in mice.
EOF
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) results from functional ovarian hyperandrogenism
due to dysregulation of androgen secretion. Cultured theca cells from polycystic 
ovaries of women with the most common form of PCOS overexpress most androgen
producing enzymes, particularly CYP450c17. In this study, a murine model was used
of PCOS induced by chronic feeding with a high-fat diet that exhibits the
reproductive, hyperandrogenic, and metabolic constellation of PCOS symptoms seen 
in women. Oral administration of KDT501, a hops-derived bitter taste receptor
(Tas2R 108) isohumulone ligand resulted in resolution of PCOS-associated
endocrine and metabolic disturbances and restored reproductive function.
Pioglitazone, a PPARγ agonist, also improved metabolic and reproductive function,
though not to the same degree as KDT501. Specifically, treatment of the murine
PCOS model with KDT501 resulted in reduced testosterone and androstenedione
levels in the absence of significant changes in LH or FSH, improved glucose
tolerance and lipid metabolism, and reduced hepatic lipid infiltration and
adiposity. There was significant improvement in estrous cyclicity and an increase
in the number of ovarian corpora lutea, indicative of improved reproductive
function after exposure to KDT501. Finally, ex vivo exposure of murine ovaries to
KDT501 attenuated androgen production and ovarian expression of CYP450c17.
Interestingly, the ovaries expressed Tas2R 108, suggesting a potential regulation
of ovarian steroidogenesis through this chemosensory receptor family. In summary,
a therapeutic strategy for PCOS possibly could include direct influences on
ovarian steroidogenesis that are independent of gonadotrophic hormone regulation.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is accused
as inducer of both cardiovascular and chronic liver diseases. The aim of the
present study was to evaluate the therapeutic effect of combined freeze dried
orange juice with its dried pulp supplemented with methionine, as functional
food, in comparison to orange bioactive constituents, as parallel formula, in
NAFLD rat model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Proximate composition, dietary fibers, minerals, total
phenolics, fatty acids and phytosterols were determined in the orange functional 
food. The NAFLD was induced in rats through feeding high fructose diet. The
prepared functional food and its parallel formula were evaluated in NAFLD rats
through determination of liver fat and plasma lipid profile, malondialdehyde,
tumor necrosis factor-α, leptin, insulin and glucose as well as liver and kidney 
function with histopathological examination of the liver. Insulin resistance (IR)
and total cholesterol/high density lipoprotein cholesterol were calculated.
RESULTS: Orange functional food was shown to contain 9.17% dietary fibers, 1.4%
potassium, 1.4 phenolic content as mg gallic acid/g, oleic acid as the major
fatty acid (29.75% of total fatty acids) and 11.97% phytosterols from
unsaponifiable matter. The studied formulas produced reduction of liver and
plasma lipids, inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers, IR and leptin with
improving liver function and histopathology pointing to potential management of
NAFLD.
CONCLUSION: Orange functional food and its parallel formula were promising in
management of NAFLD; with superiority to orange functional food. Phenolic
compounds, dietary fibers, phytosterols and mono and poly-unsaturated fatty acids
could be responsible to the bioactivity of orange formula.
EOF
Increasing evidence has suggested high-fat diet (HFD) is an independent risk
factor for myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (MI/R) injury. Long noncoding RNAs
(lncRNAs) recently attracted much attraction in the study of MI/R injury.
However, the functional questions of specific lncRNAs in HFD-induced MI/R injury 
have not been well elucidated. Uc.48+ is a lncRNA from a transcribed
ultraconserved region (T-UCR) of human, mouse, and rat genomes. Here, we explored
the aggravating role of uc.48+and identified purinergic P2X7 receptor (P2X7R) as 
a downstream regulator of uc.48+ in HFD-induced MI/R vulnerability. We
demonstrated uc.48+ expression was upregulated, accompanied by the corresponding 
upregulation of P2X7R in HFD I/R myocardium and HFD-induced MI/R vulnerability.
Overexpression of uc.48+enhanced, whereas silencing of uc.48 + decreased the
expression of P2X7R, cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and MI/R injury. The functional
relevance of uc.48+ regulated P2X7R expression and the subsequent NF-κB signaling
to promote cardiomyocyte apoptosis was supported by inhibition of P2X7R with its 
specific antagonist (A438079) as well as the inhibitor of NF-κB signaling
(pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, PDTC) in H9c2 hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) cells
transfected with pcDNA3.0-uc.48 + plasmid, and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP)
suggested uc.48+ could interact with transcription factor Sp1. Importantly, Sp1
inhibitor (mithramycin, MIT) was found to suppress uc.48+ -induced P2X7R
expression and the NF-κB signaling and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Our findings
provide a potential novel mechanism through which uc.48+ boosts cardiomyocyte
apoptosis and MI/R vulnerability to HFD. Thus, uc.48+ is a novel regulator of
HFD-induced MI/R injury; targeting uc.48+ may be a novel therapeutic approach of 
MI/R vulnerability to HFD.
EOF
The incidence of cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome increases after
the onset of menopause, giving evidence for the vital role of estrogen.
Intracellular calcium [Ca2+ ]i regulation plays an important role in the
maintenance of left ventricular (LV) contractile function. Although either
estrogen deprivation or obesity has been shown to strongly affect the metabolic
status and LV function, the effects of estrogen deprivation on the
cardiometabolic status and cardiac [Ca 2+ ]i regulation in the obese-insulin
resistant condition have never been investigated. Our hypothesis was that
estrogen deprivation aggravates LV dysfunction through the increased impairment
of [Ca 2+ ]i homeostasis in obese-insulin resistant rats. Female rats were fed on
either a high-fat (HFD, 59.28% fat) or normal (ND, 19.77% fat) diet for 13 weeks.
Then, rats were divided into sham (HFS and NDS) operated or ovariectomized (HFO
and NDO) groups. Six weeks after surgery, metabolic status, LV function and
incidence of [Ca 2+ ]i transients were determined. NDO, HFS, and HFO rats had
evidence of obese-insulin resistance indicated by increased body weight with
hyperinsulinemia and euglycemia. Although NDO, HFS, and HFO rats had markedly
reduced %LV fractional shortening, E/A ratio and decreased [Ca 2+ ]i transient
amplitude and decay rate, HFO rats had the most severe impairments. These
findings indicate that estrogen deprivation had a strong impact on abnormal LV
function through [Ca 2+ ]i regulation. In addition, evidence was found that in
obese-insulin resistant rats, estrogen deprivation severely aggravates LV
dysfunction via increased impairment of [Ca 2+ ]i homeostasis.
EOF
Withaferin A (WA), a bioactive constituent derived from Withania somnifera plant,
has been shown to exhibit many qualifying properties in attenuating several
metabolic diseases. The current investigation sought to elucidate the protective 
mechanisms of WA (1.25 mg/kg/day) on pre-existing obese mice mediated by high-fat
diet (HFD) for 12 weeks. Following dietary administration of WA, significant
metabolic improvements in hepatic insulin sensitivity, adipocytokines with
enhanced glucose tolerance were observed. The hepatic oxidative functions of
obese mice treated with WA were improved via augmented antioxidant enzyme
activities. The levels of serum pro-inflammatory cytokines and hepatic mRNA
expressions of toll-like receptor (TLR4), nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), tumor
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand-receptor, and
cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) in HFD-induced obese mice were reduced. Mechanistically, 
WA increased hepatic mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptors (PPARs), cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36), fatty acid synthase
(FAS), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1), glucokinase (GCK),
phosphofructokinase (PFK), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK1) that were
associated with enhanced lipid and glucose metabolism. Taken together, these
results indicate that WA exhibits protective effects against HFD-induced obesity 
through attenuation of hepatic inflammation, oxidative stress, and insulin
resistance in mice.
EOF
The cellular repressor of E1A-stimulated genes (CREG) is a 220 amino acid
glycoprotein structurally similar to oxidoreductases. However, CREG does not have
enzymatic activities because it cannot bind to the cofactor flavin
mononucleotide. Although CREG can be secreted, it is mainly an intracellular
protein localized in the endocytic-lysosomal compartment. It undergoes
proteolytic maturation mediated by lysosomal cysteine proteases. Biochemical
studies have demonstrated that CREG interacts with
mannose-6-phosphate/insulin-like growth factor-2 receptor (M6P/IGF2R) and exocyst
Sec8. CREG inhibits proliferation and induces differentiation and senescence when
overexpressed in cultured cells. In Drosophila, RNAi-mediated knockdown of CREG
causes developmental lethality at the pupal stage. In mice, global deletion of
the CREG1 gene leads to early embryonic death. These findings establish an
essential role for CREG in development. CREG1 haploinsufficient and
liver-specific knockout mice are susceptible to high fat diet-induced obesity,
hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance. The purpose of this review is to
provide an overview of what we know about the biochemistry and biology of CREG
and to discuss the important questions that remain to be addressed in the future.
EOF
Malanga (Xanthosoma sagittifolium) is used as a medicinal food for infant
development and gastritis. We compared the physicochemical properties and gut
microbial effects of malanga versus potato (Solanum tuberosum) using nutritional 
analysis, rheometry, in vitro TNO Intestinal Model, and C57Bl/6J mouse models.
Malanga was characterized by higher starch (70.7% v. 66.3%), lower
amylose:amylopectin (0.33 v. 0.59), higher free sugar (5.44% v. 3.23%), lower
viscosity (271.0 v. 863.0 mPa.s), and higher bioaccessible and bioavailable sugar
(0.89 v. 0.11 g bioaccessible sucrose per 20 g load in vitro; blood glucose
levels of 129.1 v. 95.2 and 133.8 v. 104.3 mg/dL after 20 and 60 min in vivo).
Gut microbiota of mice fed a high fat diet containing 20% malanga for 14 d
exhibited significantly higher α diversity than those fed 20% potato, indicating 
that minor physicochemical differences between similar tuber crops are associated
with significantly different effects on the gut microbiome.
EOF
OBJECTIVES: It is controversial whether sodium glucose transporter (SGLT) 2
inhibitors increase glucagon secretion via direct inhibition of SGLT2 in
pancreatic α cells. The role of SGLT1 in α cells is also unclear. We aimed to
elucidate these points that are important not only for basic research but also
for clinical insight.
METHODS: Plasma glucagon levels were assessed in the high-fat, high-sucrose diet 
(HFHSD) fed C57BL/6J mice treated with dapagliflozin or canagliflozin. RT-PCR,
RNA sequence, and immunohistochemistry were conducted to test the expression of
SGLT1 and SGLT2 in α cells. We also used αTC1 cells and mouse islets to
investigate the molecular mechanism by which SGLT1 modulates glucagon secretion.
RESULTS: Dapagliflozin, but not canagliflozin, increased plasma glucagon levels
in HFHSD fed mice. SGLT1 and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), but not SGLT2, were
expressed in αTC1 cells, mouse islets and human islets. A glucose clamp study
revealed that the plasma glucagon increase associated with dapagliflozin could be
explained as a response to acute declines in blood glucose. Canagliflozin
suppressed glucagon secretion by inhibiting SGLT1 in α cells; consequently,
plasma glucagon did not increase with canagliflozin, even though blood glucose
declined. SGLT1 effect on glucagon secretion depended on glucose transport, but
not glucose metabolism. Islets from HFHSD and db/db mice displayed higher SGLT1
mRNA levels and lower GLUT1 mRNA levels than the islets from control mice. These 
expression levels were associated with higher glucagon secretion. Furthermore,
SGLT1 inhibitor and siRNA against SGLT1 suppressed glucagon secretion in isolated
islets.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggested that a novel mechanism regulated glucagon
secretion through SGLT1 in α cells. This finding possibly explained the distinct 
effects of dapagliflozin and canagliflozin on plasma glucagon levels in mice.
EOF
During aging, stromal functions are thought to be impaired, but little is known
whether this stems from changes of fibroblasts. Using population- and single-cell
transcriptomics, as well as long-term lineage tracing, we studied whether murine 
dermal fibroblasts are altered during physiological aging under different dietary
regimes that affect longevity. We show that the identity of old fibroblasts
becomes undefined, with the fibroblast states present in young skin no longer
clearly demarcated. In addition, old fibroblasts not only reduce the expression
of genes involved in the formation of the extracellular matrix, but also gain
adipogenic traits, paradoxically becoming more similar to neonatal pro-adipogenic
fibroblasts. These alterations are sensitive to systemic metabolic changes:
long-term caloric restriction reversibly prevents them, whereas a high-fat diet
potentiates them. Our results therefore highlight loss of cell identity and the
acquisition of adipogenic traits as a mechanism underlying cellular aging, which 
is influenced by systemic metabolism.
EOF
Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is the site of non-shivering thermogenesis in mammals,
wherein energy is dissipated as heat. We observed that aqueous extract of black
sesame seed triggers an increase in the expression of Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1)
in brown adipocytes from mice. The active component from the extract was purified
and identified to be sesaminol diglucoside (SDG). SDG treatment decreased mass of
white fat pads and serum glucose levels and increased UCP1 levels in BAT thereby 
protecting mice against high fat induced weight gain. Further in silico and
in vitro studies revealed that these effects are due to the agonist like
behaviour of SDG towards beta 3 adrenergic receptors (β3-AR). Together, our
results suggest that SDG induces BAT mediated thermogenesis through β3-AR and
protects mice against diet-induced obesity.
EOF
Hypertension is a multifactorial disease with limited knowledge of the involved
mechanisms. p,p'-DDE ( p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene) is a pollutant
commonly found in tissues that interferes with endocrine signaling. This study
aimed to evaluate the mechanism of hypertension triggered by p,p'-DDE exposure in
the presence or absence of a HF (high-fat) diet in rats. The renin-angiotensin
system (RAS) was evaluated by qPCR in liver and adipose tissue (AT), and a
transcriptome analysis comparing visceral AT of HF diet and HF/DDE groups was
performed. HF diet influenced RAS, but the p,p'-DDE effect was more evident in
liver than in AT (interaction between the diet and p,p'-DDE treatment affected
aldosterone receptor and angiotensin converting enzyme 2 expression in liver, p <
0.05, two-way ANOVA). p,p'-DDE induced a decrease in the expression of genes
involved in the retinoid acid biosynthesis pathway (Crabp1; -2.07-fold; p =
0.018), eNOS activation (Nos1; -1.64-fold; p = 0.012), and regulation and urea
cycle (Ass1; -2.07-fold; p = 0.02). This study suggested that p,p'-DDE may play a
fundamental role in the pathogenesis of hypertension, not exclusively in RAS but 
also by induction of hyperuricemia and increased oxidative stress, which may lead
to endoplasmic reticulum stress and vascular injury.
EOF
Diet-induced obesity is strongly associated with nonalcoholic fatty-liver disease
(NAFLD) and insulin resistance. We aimed to investigate the in vivo therapeutic
value of tetrahydrocurcumin (THC) intervention in high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced
obesity and hepatic steatosis. C57BL/6 mice were fed an HFD for 10 weeks, and
then they received 20 or 100 mg/kg THC along with the HFD for another 10 weeks.
Mice fed an HFD for 20 weeks experienced obesity, hepatic steatosis,
hyperlipidemia, and insulin resistance. Tetrahydrocurcumin (THC) intervention for
10 weeks significantly reduced adiposity (epididymal-fat weights of 6.6 ± 0.4 g
for the HFD-only group and 5.3 ± 0.8 and 5.6 ± 0.7 g for the HFD with 20 mg/kg
THC and HFD with 100 mg/kg THC groups, respectively; p < 0.05) via downregulation
of adipogenic factors. Inflammatory macrophage infiltration and polarization were
decreased by THC in mouse epididymal adipose tissues. In the liver, THC markedly 
alleviated steatosis by approximately 28-37% ( p < 0.05) via the downregulation
of lipogenesis, the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and the
increase of fatty acid oxidation. Elevated blood glucose and insulin resistance
were also improved by THC, which might be caused by regulation of the hepatic
insulin signaling cascade, gene transcription involved in glucose metabolism, and
reduced macrophage infiltration in the liver and adipose tissue. Our results
demonstrated the beneficial effects of THC-mediated intervention against obesity 
and NAFLD as well as other metabolic syndromes, revealing a novel therapeutic use
of THC in obese populations.
EOF
Diet is increasingly being recognised as an important contributor to mental
health. A diet high in sugar and polyunsaturated fatty acids can have negative
consequences for disease symptoms and outcomes in schizophrenia patients. There
is also evidence that particular diets can have beneficial, therapeutic-like
properties for human brain disorders. Additionally, dietary choices of mothers
have been found to affect cognitive domains and anxiety behaviour of offspring.
Here we investigated the effects of maternal high fat diet (HFD) on a variety of 
behavioural domains in offspring and also consider behaviours, which are
schizophrenia-relevant. Female C57BL/6 J mice were fed HFD (N = 13) or chow
(N = 11) from 6 weeks prior to mating, during gestation and lactation. The male
offspring of these mothers were weaned onto chow on PND24 and underwent testing
for a range of behavioural outcomes starting at 38 weeks of age. Offspring of HFD
mothers were significantly heavier compared to those of control mothers from
weaning and throughout the duration of the experiment. Offspring of HFD mothers
had significantly improved sensorimotor gating compared to offspring of control
mothers but showed no altered behavioural response in tests for cognition,
sociability, locomotion or exploration. Future investigations are required to
assess which HFD-induced factors are responsible for the effects, e.g. altered
maternal nursing behaviour, altered gestational physiology, or others warrants
further investigation.
EOF
AIMS: Trefoil factor family member 2 (TFF2) is a small gut peptide. We have
previously shown that Tff2 knock out (KO) mice are protected from high-fat (HF)
diet-induced obesity (De Giorgio et al., 2013a). Thus, exploring Tff2 KO-related 
pathways of mice at the genomic, proteinic and biochemical levels would allow us 
to elucidate the processes behind this protection from obesity.
MAIN METHODS: To explore the metabolic and energetic effects related to Tff2
deficiency, we used sampled blood from the previous study to measure levels of
free fatty acids, glucose, glycerol and triglycerides in serum. Expression levels
of selected genes and proteins related to energy metabolism in the skeletal
muscle, liver and adipose tissue were also studied.
KEY FINDINGS: Following the 12-wk challenging of Tff2 KO and WT mice with both HF
and low-fat diet, Tff2 KO mice had lower levels of serum glucose, triglycerides
and glycerol. Importantly, western blotting and Q_RT-PCR revealed that the
expression levels of selected genes and proteins are toward less fat storage and 
increased energy expenditure by enhancing lipid and glucose utilization via
oxidative phosphorylation.
SIGNIFICANCE: We mapped a part of the metabolic and biochemical pathways of
lipids and glucose involving the adipose tissue, liver, skeletal muscle and
sympathetic nervous system that protect Tff2 KO mice from the HF diet-induced
obesity. Our data highlight Tff2-related pathways as potential targets for
obesity therapies.
EOF
AIMS: Evidence suggests that administration of a high-fat diet (HFD) results in
changes in the intestinal lumen environment. Gut dysbiosis associated with
intestinal barrier disruption may be involved in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 
development through increased intestinal permeability, which would trigger an
inflammatory response leading to peripheral insulin resistance state and
ultimately T2DM. In this study, we investigated the effect of the intestinal
luminal content isolated from control or HFD-fed prediabetic mice upon the tight 
junction (TJ)-mediated epithelial barrier in Caco-2 and MDCK epithelial cell
lines.
METHODS/KEY FINDINGS: Exposure to small intestine luminal content (SI) isolated
from HFD-fed prediabetic mice induced a more significant decrease in
transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), associated with higher paracellular
flux in Caco-2 and MDCK cells after 6 h and 4 h respectively, as compared to the 
SI obtained from control mice. Such changes were accompanied by a significant
decrease in TJ content of claudins, occludin, and ZO-1, indicative of disruption 
of the TJ barrier. Meanwhile, large intestine luminal content from control
(Ctrl-LI) and prediabetic (HFD-LI) animals did not change TEER significantly,
however, paracellular flux was significantly increased after 24 h, accompanied by
a decrease in ZO-1 (after HFD-LI exposure) in Caco-2 and significant changes in
the junctional distribution of claudins-1, -2, occludin and ZO-1 proteins in
MDCK, particularly after HFD-LI exposure.
SIGNIFICANCE: Luminal components of intestinal content, altered by HFD exposure, 
induce impairment of the TJ structure and function in vitro, corroborating the
idea of a role of the intestinal paracellular barrier in the obesity-related T2DM
pathogenesis.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Although non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become more
prevalent with the rapid increase of obesity worldwide, no specific treatment has
been developed. Several studies have shown that wheatgrass extract Triticum
aestivum (TA) improves lipid metabolism. In the present study, we evaluated the
efficacy of GM-T (an ethanolic TA extract) in a murine NAFLD model. Mice were
separated into 12 groups (n = 10): two groups of normal diet, choline-deficient
diet (CDD) or high-fat diet (HFD) with vehicle, CCD or HFD with silymarin (400 mg
kg-1 day-1 ), and CCD or HFD with GM-T (100, 200 or 400 mg kg-1 day-1 ). The
study was performed for 8 weeks for the CDD groups and 12 weeks for the HFD
groups.
RESULTS: In the CDD-fed mice, GM-T improved serum liver enzyme activities and
liver inflammation score compared to vehicle. In the HFD-fed mice, GM-T improved 
blood lipid profiles, liver inflammation score, steatosis score and obesity
compared to vehicle.
CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrated that GM-T effectively improved NAFLD
in mice via a mechanism that improved insulin resistance and lipid metabolism,
suggesting the possibility of a functional dietary supplement to improve liver
health, overall metabolic syndrome and obesity. © 2018 Society of Chemical
Industry.
EOF
Inflammation is a major contributing factor to the progression of
atherosclerosis. Ginsenoside Rb1 (Rb1), an active saponin of Panax notoginseng,
has been found to exert beneficial effects on inflammation and oxidative stress. 
This study investigated the ability of Rb1 to inhibit the formation of
atherosclerotic plaques and the potential mechanisms. In this study, the effects 
of Rb1 on the development of atherosclerosis were investigated in ApoE-/-
deficient mice fed with a western diet. Mice were intragastrically administrated 
with Rb1 (10 mg/kg) for 8 weeks. This study is that ginsenoside Rb1 exerted an
inhibitory effect on early atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice via decreasing body
weight and food intake daily, upregulating the lipid levels of serum plasma,
including those of TC, TG and LDL-C and HDL-C and reducing the atherosclerotic
plaque area, suppressing inflammatory cytokines (levels of IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α)
in the serum of ApoE-/- mice, changing the expression levels of BCL-2, BAX,
cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved caspase-9 and weakening apoptosis associated with
anti-inflammatory activity. Hence, all these effects against atherosclerosis were
tightly associated with regulation of necrosis or apoptosis associated with
anti-inflammatory activity. Additionally, the results found that ginsenoside Rb1 
increased autophagy flux to inhibit apoptosis via acceleration of autophagy by
promoting transformation of LC3 from type I to type II in high-fat diet-induced
atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice. This finding, along with those of the previous
study, provides evidence that Rb1 promotes the process of autophagy to protect
against atherosclerosis via regulating BCL-2 family-related apoptosis. These
results indicate that Rb1 exhibits therapeutic effects in atherosclerosis by
reversing the imbalance between apoptosis and autophagy.
EOF
Aim This study sought to investigate the effects of two different maternal
high-fat diets, during gestation and lactation, on the morphology of the skeletal
muscle of the adult offspring rats.METHODS: Female Wistar rats were fed Control
(C) or High-fat/high-caloric (HH) or High-fat/isocaloric (HI) diet during
gestation and lactation. The somatic growth of the offspring was measured
throughout lactation. Glucose and insulin tolerance tests were performed at PND61
and PND65, respectively. At PND70, soleus and extensor digitorum longus (EDL)
muscles were removed for myofibrillar ATPase staining analysis.
KEY FINDINGS: HH pups were heavier and longer at weaning but presented same body 
weight at PND70. No difference among groups in glucose or insulin tolerance tests
was observed. In the soleus muscle, HH offspring showed increased proportion and 
size of type 1 fibres and reduced proportion and number with increased size of
type 2A fibres. In EDL muscle, there was no difference in proportion and number
of fibres. HH and HI animals presented reduced type 1 and 2A fibres size while HH
animals presented increased type 2B fibres size, in EDL muscle.
SIGNIFICANCE: Maternal HH diet promoted a more oxidative profile in soleus
muscle. Though, maternal high-fat/isocaloric diet influenced only fibres size.
Glycolytic muscle is more resistant to maternal diet influence. These results
emphasize the importance of maternal diet during the critical period of
development on muscle morphology of the offspring.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: To test the effect of calcium and vitamin B6 therapies on urinary
oxalate excretion in a rodent model of enteric hyperoxaluria after Roux-en Y
gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery.
METHODS: Obese male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent sham (n = 7) or RYGB (n = 10). 
Animals were maintained on low oxalate (1.5%) and fat (10%; LOF), normal calcium 
(0.6 %) diet for 8 weeks and then completed a 2-phase crossover metabolic study. 
In the first 2-week phase, animals were fed a Low oxalate and fat (LOF), high
calcium (2.4%; HC) diet. After a 2-week washout, rats were fed a LOF/normal
calcium diet highly enriched with vitamin B6. Urine was collected before and
after each intervention. Plasma pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) and metabolites were
measured baseline and 11 weeks after sham or RYGB.
RESULTS: Compared to baseline, sham animals on LOF/HC diet doubled their urinary 
calcium excretion but not oxalate. RYGB animals on LOF/HC diet decreased urinary 
oxalate excretion 28% (P = .001) without a significant rise in urinary calcium.
Vitamin B6 supplementation decreased RYGB urinary oxalate by approximately 15% (P
= .06), and serum PLP explained 63% of urinary oxalate variability.
CONCLUSION: Based on the findings in this model, calcium supplementation appears 
to be a reasonable therapy to decrease urinary oxalate in RYGB patients who
maintain a low fat and oxalate diet. Serum PLP had a fair correlation to urinary 
oxalate excretion and may be a useful screening tool in hyperoxaluric RYGB
patients. Further experimental human studies after RYGB are necessary to
determine whether these commonly employed supplements truly provide a benefit in 
enteric hyperoxaluria.
EOF
This work was to assess possible impacts of novel insoluble fiber 8% bacterial
cellulose (BC), soluble fiber 8% konjac glucomannan (KGM), and their mixture (4% 
BC/4% KGM) on fatty acid metabolism and intestinal microbiota of C57BL/6J mice
fed with a high-fat diet (HFD). HFD-fed mice receiving the dietary fibers (DFs)
for 16 weeks exhibited an improvement in lipid-associated cytokines and a
decrease in inflammation factors, which was associated with the improved hepatic 
and serum fatty acid composition. The DFs, notably the mixed BC/KGM, elevated the
HFD-caused decrease in the contents of acetic acid (from 23.9 ± 0.85 to 32.2 ±
0.84 mM/g; p < 0.05), propionic acid (from 6.53 ± 0.28 to 12.8 ± 0.58 mM/g; p <
0.05), and butyric acid (from 7.73 ± 0.43 to 13.5 ± 0.47 mM/g; p < 0.05).
Furthermore, the mixed BC/KGM significantly decreased the abundance of Firmicutes
(from 90.4 to 67.6%) and Mucispirillum (from 4.77 to 1.58%) and dramatically
increased the abundance of Bacteroidetes (from 7.83 to 25.0%) and Akkermansia
(from 0.69 to 2.80%) in the gut of HFD-fed mice at the genus level. Moreover,
correlation analysis revealed that the multiplicity of gut microbiota was useful 
in sustaining colonic integrity through producing short-chain fatty acids to some
extent. This finding suggests that a mixture of insoluble BC and soluble KGM has 
positive effects on modulation of the intestinal microecosystem in mice.
EOF
SCOPE: It has been hypothesized that a high-saturated-fat, high-sugar diet (HFHS)
causes worse cardiometabolic dysfunction than a high-saturated-fat diet (HFD) due
to severe mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in obese
insulin-resistant rats.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Rats are divided into three groups to receive normal diet
(ND), HFD, or HFHS for 24 weeks. Cardiometabolic parameters are determined at
baseline and every 4 weeks until the end of the feeding protocol. At week 24,
hearts are removed to determine mitochondrial function and dynamics, apoptosis,
and insulin signaling. HFD and HFHS rats develop obese insulin-resistance at week
8. However, fasting plasma glucose level is increased only in HFHS rats.
Myocardial insulin signaling is markedly impaired in HFHS rats compared to other 
groups. Cardiac autonomic imbalance is observed in both HFD and HFHS rats
beginning at week 8. However, cardiac dysfunction is observed earlier (week 8) in
HFHS rats, and later at week 12 in HFD rats. Moreover, cardiac and mitochondrial 
oxidative stress levels, and apoptosis are greater in HFHS rats than HFD rats.
CONCLUSION: Both HFD and HFHS cause cardiometabolic dysfunction. HFHS causes more
severe metabolic disturbance, oxidative stress, and apoptosis than HFD, which
leads to an accelerated LV dysfunction in HFHS rats.
EOF
Freshwater clams (Corbicula fluminea) have long been used as a folk remedy in
Chinese tradition. Their hot-water extract has been commercialized as a
functional drink for liver protection. The objective of this study was to develop
a product of the residual clam meat (FCR) and assess its functional compounds.
The ethanol extract of FCR, designated FCRE, was identified to comprise
phytosterols, polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and carotenoids. FCRE
significantly reduced lipid accumulation and cell death in HepG2 cells via
decreased fatty acid synthase (FAS) activity and increased activities of
carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) and acyl-CoA oxidase (ACO), indicative of
suppressed lipogenesis and increased β-oxidation of fatty acids. In tilapia fed
with high-fat diet (HFD), FCRE mitigated nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
which was evidenced by decreased levels of plasma aspartate transaminase (AST)
and alanine transaminase (ALT), in addition to reduced total cholesterol and
accumulation of triacylglycerols, particularly those of saturated and
monounsaturated fatty acids. FCRE also suppressed stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1
(SCD-1) index, increased the PUFAs' n3/n6 ratio, and reduced prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) and inflammatory infiltrates in tilapia liver. Tilapia fed with HFD for 2 
weeks displayed NASH symptoms, while mice took 10 weeks to display NASH symptoms.
No previous study has been reported on the potential use of tilapia as an NASH
model for pre-screening hepatoprotective-functional foods.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA), which is an octadecadienoic acid
isomer, is believed to play different positive physiological roles, such as
lowering body fat. Due to some reported side effects of CLA, like lipodystrophy
and impaired glucose metabolism, it is important to establish its safety by
understanding detailed molecular mechanisms. One of these mechanisms may be the
role of this dietary agent in modifying the function and activity of microRNAs
(miRNAs).
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to investigate how adipocyte miR-27a and
miR-143 expression may be influenced by CLA in obese rats.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this study, 24 male Wistar rats were randomly divided
into normal-fat diet (NFD) and high-fat diet (HFD) groups. After 8 weeks, the
rats were weighed and half of the diet-induced obese rats were randomly selected 
to receive 500 mg CLA per 1 kg body weight for 4 weeks. At the end of this
period, epididymal fat was isolated to investigate the expression level of miRNAs
by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
RESULTS: After 12 weeks, the obese rats in the HFD group, compared with rats in
the NFD group, demonstrated a significant decrease in the expression of miR-27a
(p < 0.05) and a significant increase in the expression of miR-143 (p < 0.05). In
the group which had received CLA for a 4-week period, these events were reversed.
Moreover, the rats in this group gained less weight than other rats in HFD
groups, although the difference was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, this study demonstrated that CLA, as an anti-obesity 
agent, may minimize abnormal changes in miRNA expression in obesity. This
suggests a new pathway for weight loss; however, further studies are needed.
EOF
Some researchers have proposed important variations in adipose tissue among
different strains of rats and mice in response to a high-caloric (hc) diet, but
data concerning the mechanisms underlying these differences are scarce. The aim
of the present research was to characterize different aspects of triacylglycerol 
(TG) metabolism and clock genes between Sprague-Dawley and Wistar rats. For this 
purpose, 16 male Sprague-Dawley and 16 male Wistar rats were divided into four
experimental groups (n = 8) and fed either a normal-caloric (nc) diet or a hc
diet for 6 weeks. After sacrifice, liver and epididymal, perirenal, mesenteric,
and subcutaneous adipose tissue depots were dissected, weighed and immediately
frozen. Liver TG content was quantified, RNA extracted for gene expression
analysis and fatty acid synthase enzyme activity measured. Two-way ANOVA and
Student's t test were used to perform the statistical analyses. Under hc feeding 
conditions, Wistar rats were more prone to fat accumulation in adipose tissue,
especially in the epididymal fat depot, due to their increased lipogenesis and
fatty acid uptake. By contrast, both strains of rats showed similarly fatty
livers after hc feeding. Peripheral clock machinery seems to be a potential
explanatory mechanism for Wistar and Sprague-Dawley strain differences. In
conclusion, Wistar strain seems to be the best choice as animal model in
dietary-induced obesity studies.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Hepatic steatosis that occasionally results in nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) is related to obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Many studies 
have shown that autophagy exerts protective effects on liver damage caused by
various diseases and melatonin exhibits hepatoprotective properties. However, the
mechanisms of liver injury induced by chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) and the 
effect of melatonin on the regulation of liver injury remain unclear.
PURPOSE: This study was aimed to evaluate the role of CIH in steatohepatitis
progression and the regulatory function of melatonin on fatty liver sensitivity
to CIH injury, mainly focusing on autophagy signaling.
METHODS: A high-fat diet (FD)-induced obesity mouse model was subjected to
intermittent hypoxia/normoxia events for approximately 8 h per day using an
autophagy agonist, rapamycin, or an inhibitor, 3-methyladenine (3-MA), and
SRT1720, a sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activator, or sirtinol, a SIRT1 inhibitor, with or
without melatonin for a total of six successive weeks, followed by assessment of 
expression of autophagy-related genes and activity of serum aminotransferase as
well as histological evaluation of tissue morphology.
RESULTS: Neither FD nor CIH alone causes significant liver injury; however, the
combination yielded higher serum aminotransferase activities and more severe
histological changes, accompanied by a decrease in autophagy activity. Melatonin 
markedly inhibited FD/CIH-stimulated liver injury by enhancing autophagy. In
contrast, SIRT1 inhibition resulted in a decrease in the expression of
melatonin-induced autophagy-related genes as well as diminished its protective
effects on FD/CIH-induced liver injury.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that melatonin could ameliorate FD/CIH-induced 
hepatocellular damage by activating SIRT1-mediated autophagy signaling.
EOF
To clarify the effects of a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor on
whole-body energy metabolism, we treated mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) with
teneligliptin, a clinically available DPP-4 inhibitor. Teneligliptin
significantly prevented HFD-induced obesity and obesity-associated metabolic
disorders. It also increased oxygen consumption rate and upregulated uncoupling
protein 1 (UCP1) expression in both brown adipose tissue (BAT) and inguinal white
adipose tissue (iWAT), suggesting that it enhances BAT function. Soluble DPP-4
inhibited β-adrenoreceptor-stimulated UCP1 expression in primary adipocytes, and 
this inhibition was prevented in the presence of teneligliptin, or an
extracellular signal-related kinase inhibitor. These results indicate that
soluble DPP-4 inhibits β-adrenoreceptor-stimulated UCP1 induction and that
chronic DPP-4 inhibitor treatment may prevent obesity through the activation of
BAT function.
EOF
The intestinal microbiota and insulin sensitivity are rapidly altered after
ingestion of obesogenic diets. We find that changes in the composition of the
fecal microbiota precede changes in glucose tolerance when mice are fed
obesogenic, low fiber, high fat diets (HFDs). Antibiotics alter glycemia during
the first week of certain HFDs, but antibiotics show a more robust improvement in
glycemic control in mice with protracted obesity caused by long-term feeding of
multiple HFDs. Microbiota transmissible dysglycemia and glucose intolerance only 
occur when germ-free mice are exposed to obesity-related microbes for more than
45 days. We find that sufficient host exposure time to microbiota derived from
HFD-fed mice allows microbial factors to contribute to insulin resistance,
independently from increased adiposity in mice. Our results are consistent with
intestinal microbiota contributing to chronic insulin resistance and dysglycemia 
during prolonged obesity, despite rapid diet-induced changes in the taxonomic
composition of the fecal microbiota.
EOF
Obesity is a critical risk factor for various diseases including type II
diabetes, cerebral infarction, cardiovascular diseases, and various cancers.
Acrylamide (ACR) is present in wide range of foods, including fried potato
products, root vegetables, bakery products, chips, cakes, cereals, and coffee. In
this study, ACR treatment dramatically increased the accumulation of lipid
droplets. We also examined expression levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated
receptors γ (PPARγ), CCAAT enhancer binding protein α (c/EBPα), and CCAAT
enhancer binding protein β (c/EBPβ) as adipogenic transcription factors for
adipocyte differentiation. They were dose-dependently increased by treatment of
ACR. Moreover, effects of ACR on mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and 5'
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) activation were 
investigated. Results also showed that ACR induced phosphorylation of MAPKs and
AMPK-ACC. ACR also induced expression of adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein
(aP2), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), sterol regulatory element-binding protein
(SREBP)-1c, and fatty acid synthase (FAS). Exposure of ACR to high fat diet
(HFD)-fed mice significantly increased body weight, organ weight, and fat mass of
mice. Collectively, these result showed that ACR can act as an enhancer of
adipocyte. Therefore, we suggest that up-regulation of the adipogenesis by ACR
may be related to the regulation of the MAPKs and AMPK-ACC pathway.
EOF
OBJECTIVE: Extracellular matrix remodeling is required for adipose expansion
under increased caloric intake. In turn, inhibited expandability due to aberrant 
collagen deposition promotes insulin resistance and progression towards the
metabolic syndrome. An emerging role for the small leucine-rich proteoglycan
Lumican in metabolically driven nonalcoholic fatty liver disease sparks an
interest in further understanding its role in diet-induced obesity and metabolic 
complications.
METHODS: Whole body ablation of Lumican (Lum-/-) gene and adeno-associated
virus-mediated over-expression were used in combination with control or high fat 
diet to assess energy balance, glucose homeostasis as well as adipose tissue
health and remodeling.
RESULTS: Lumican was found to be particularly enriched in the stromal cells
isolated from murine gonadal white adipose tissue. Likewise murine and human
visceral fat showed a robust increase in Lumican as compared to fat from the
subcutaneous depot. Lumican null female mice exhibited moderately increased fat
mass, decreased insulin sensitivity and increased liver triglycerides in a
diet-dependent manner. These changes coincided with inflammation in adipose
tissue and no overt effects in adipose expandability, i.e. adipocyte formation
and hypertrophy. Lumican over-expression in visceral fat and liver resulted in
improved insulin sensitivity and glucose clearance.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that Lumican may represent a functional link
between the extracellular matrix, glucose homeostasis, and features of the
metabolic syndrome.
EOF
BACKGROUND: Hepatic gluconeogenesis plays an important role in regulating fasting
plasma glucose levels and is a target of anti-diabetic drugs. Several kinds of
iridoid glucosides exhibit hypoglycemic effect, whereas the mechanism was not
clear.
AIM OF THE STUDY: In this study, the effects of geniposide and gentiopicroside,
two natural iridoid glucosides, on hepatic gluconeogenesis were investigated.
METHODS: Glucose uptake assay, MTT assay, q-PCR, luciferase assay and western
blot assay were performed to investigate the pharmacological effect of geniposide
and gentiopicroside on human liver cell line L02. Thereby the fast blood glucose 
and intraperitoneal glucose tolerance were measured in high fat diet induced
hyperglycemic mice after geniposide or gentiopicroside administration.
RESULTS: The results showed that geniposide and gentiopicroside inhibited the
transcription of G6PC and PEPCK in L02 cells and in mice. Additional experimental
data indicated that these two compounds were able to inhibit the transcriptional 
activity of FOXO1 by inducing phosphorylation of AKT at Ser473. Furthermore, we
found that these two compounds alleviated high fat diet induced hyperglycemia in 
mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Geniposide and gentiopicroside might reduce blood glucose and
suppress hepatic gluconeogenesis by regulating the AKT-FOXO1 pathway, and the
potential use of these two iridoid glucosides as anti-diabetic agents merits
further in-depth exploration.
EOF
We investigated the Lactobacillus plantarum bacteriocin plantaricin EF (PlnEF)
system for its contributions to L. plantarum mediated benefits in a mouse model
of diet-induced obesity. C57BL/6J mice on a high-fat diet (HFD) were administered
a rifampicin resistant mutant of L. plantarum NCMIB8826 (NICMB8826-R) or an
isogenic ΔplnEFI mutant strain, LM0419, every 48 h for nine weeks. Mice fed
wild-type L. plantarum, but not LM0419, reduced their consumption of the HFD
starting three weeks into the study and exhibited an overall 10% reduction in
weight gain. The responses were independent of glucose homeostasis, as both
NCMIB8826-R and LM0419 fed mice had improved oral glucose tolerance compared to
sham controls. Although bacteriocins have antibacterial properties, the ileal,
cecal, and fecal microbiota and cecocolic metabolomes were unchanged between mice
fed either wild-type L. plantarum or the ΔplnEFI mutant. Instead, only mice fed
NCMIB8826-R showed an increased production of ZO-1 in ileal tissues. To verify a 
potential role for the plantaricin EF system in supporting intestinal epithelial 
function, synthesized PlnEF peptides were applied to Caco-2 cell monolayers
challenged with TNF-α and IFN-γ. The combination of PlnE and PlnF were required
to prevent sustained cytokine-induced losses to Caco-2 cell para- and
transcellular permeability and elevated IL-8 levels. In conclusion, this study
shows that probiotic L. plantarum ameliorates the effects of obesogenic diets
through a mechanism that involves the plantaricin EF system and likely includes
L. plantarum - induced fortification of the intestinal epithelium.
EOF
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The effects of a low carbohydrate/high fat (LCHF) diet on
health are debated. This study aims to explore the effects of a diet with less
than 20 g carbohydrates per day (LCHF) on plasma low density lipoprotein
cholesterol (LDL-C) in young and healthy adults. The secondary aim is the
assessment of lipid profile and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) gene
expression.
METHODS: This was a randomized controlled parallel-designed intervention study.
Participants were either assigned to a three-week LCHF diet or a control group
continuing habitual diet ad libitum, in both groups.
RESULTS: In total, 30 healthy normal weight participants completed the study.
Nine subjects did not complete it due to adverse events or withdrawn consent. In 
the LCHF diet group (n = 15), plasma LDL-C increased from (mean ± SD)
2.2 ± 0.4 mmol/l before intervention to 3.1 ± 0.8 after, while in the control
group (n = 15), LDL-C remained unchanged: 2.5 ± 0.8 mmol/l (p < 0.001 between
groups). There was a significant increase in apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol,
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, free fatty acids, uric acid and urea in the
LCHF group versus controls. Plasma levels of triglycerides, lipoprotein (a),
glucose, C-peptide or C-reactive protein (CRP), blood pressure, body weight or
body composition did not differ between the groups. PBMC gene expression of
sterol regulator element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) was increased in the LCHF
group versus controls (p ≤ 0.01). The individual increase in LDL-C from baseline 
varied between 5 and 107% in the LCHF group.
CONCLUSIONS: An LCHF diet for three weeks increased LDL-C with 44% versus
controls. The individual response on LCHF varied profoundly.
EOF
Preclinical investigation is the key mark of medical research, as the major
breakthroughs including treatment of devastating diseases in biomedical research 
have been led by animal studies. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a predominant
metabolic disorder having high prevalence of morbidity worldwide which create an 
urgent need to understand the pathogenesis, complication and other possible
influences by development of appropriate animal model. High-fat diet (HFD) fed
animals (21 days) were treated with single cycle of repetitive dose (SCRD) of
streptozotocin (STZ; 40, 30 and 20 mg/kg/per day in three respective group at
1st, 3rd, and 5th day) and double cycle of repetitive dose (DCRD) of streptozocin
(STZ) (20, 10 and 5 mg/kg/per day in three respective group at 1st, 3rd, and 5th 
day in one cycle and 21st, 23rd, 25th day in second cycle of treatment) to induce
late-stage diabetic complications. Induction of hyperglycemia was assessed by
fasting and postprandial blood glucose, HbA1c, insulin, C-peptide, pancreatic
β-cells and dyslipidaemia up to 12 weeks. Combined treatment of HFD and STZ
(20 mg/kg) in the DCRD manner were significantly induced late-stage diabetic
complication with sustained hyperglycaemia, no mortality, increased HbA1c and
dyslipidaemia, reduced insulin, C-peptide and beta cells. Moreover, biochemical
and histological assessment of micro and macrovascular tissues confirmed the
significant cardio-renal injury, endothelial and hepatic damage. The study
confirmed the development of chronic diabetic model in rat mimicked to clinical
pathology with associated micro and macrovascular abnormalities which can further
explore the molecular aspects of diseases.
EOF
Adult rabbits show robust circadian rhythms of: nursing, food and water intake,
hard faeces excretion, locomotion, body temperature, blood and intraocular
pressure, corticosteroid secretion, and sleep. Control of several circadian
rhythms involves a light-entrained circadian clock and a food-entrained
oscillator. Nursing periodicity, however, relies on a suckling stimulation
threshold. Brain structures regulating this activity include the paraventricular 
nucleus and preoptic area, as determined by lesions and quantification of cFOS-
and PER1 clock gene-immunoreactive proteins. Melatonin synthesis in the rabbit
pineal gland shows a diurnal rhythm, with highest values at night and lowest ones
during the day. In kits the main zeitgeber is milk intake, which synchronizes
locomotor activity, body temperature, and corticosterone secretion. Brain regions
involved in these effects include the median preoptic nucleus and several
olfactory structures. As models for particular human illnesses rabbits have been 
valuable for studying glaucoma and cardiovascular disease. Circadian variations
in intraocular pressure (main risk factor for glaucoma) have been found, with
highest values at night, which depend on sympathetic innervation. Rabbits fed a
high fat diet develop cholesterol plaques and high blood pressure, as do humans, 
and such increased fat intake directly modulates cardiovascular homeostasis and
circadian patterns, independently of white adipose tissue accumulation. Rabbits
have also been useful to investigate the characteristics of sleep across the day 
and its modulation by infections, cytokines and other endogenous humoral factors.
Rabbit circadian biology warrants deeper investigation of the role of the
suprachiasmatic nucleus in regulating most behavioral and physiological rhythms
described above.
EOF
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: So far, the tryptophan catabolites generated in the kynurenine
pathway have been mainly studied in relation to oncologic and mental health
disorders. The current review provides an update on the emerging biomedical
interest for kynurenine pathway activity in the field of energy homeostasis and
metabolic diseases.
RECENT FINDINGS: Kynurenine pathway enzymes are expressed in tissues relevant for
energy homeostasis such as fat, skeletal muscle, liver and endocrine pancreas,
blood vessel and heart, and are regulated by nutritional and inflammatory
signals. Kynurenine pathway metabolites have been proposed as biomarkers for
initiation and progression of atherosclerosis and diabetes. Exercise training
activation of kynurenine pathway in skeletal muscles increases lipid metabolism
and thermogenesis, and it limits weight gain, inflammation, insulin resistance,
and glucose intolerance in rodents fed a high-fat diet. Manipulation of
kynurenine pathway metabolism through administration of enzyme inhibitors or
kynurenine pathway metabolites can serve as novel therapeutic strategy for
atherosclerosis, obesity, glucose intolerance, or impaired insulin secretion.
SUMMARY: Although we are far from a complete understanding of the role of
kynurenine pathway in the modulation of energy homeostasis, targeting kynurenine 
pathway harbors high potential to expand the range of therapies to prevent and
treat metabolic diseases.
EOF
KEY POINTS: A paternal high-fat diet/obesity before mating can negatively
influence the metabolism of offspring. Exercise only early in life has a
remarkable effect with respect to reprogramming adult rat offspring exposed to
detrimental insults before conception. Exercise only early in life normalized
adult whole body and muscle insulin resistance as a result of having a high-fat
fed/obese father. Unlike the effects on the muscle, early exercise did not
normalize the reduced adult pancreatic beta cell mass as a result of having a
high-fat fed/obese father. Early-life exercise training may be able to reprogram 
an individual whose father was obese, inducing long-lasting beneficial effects on
health.
ABSTRACT: A paternal high-fat diet (HFD) impairs female rat offspring glucose
tolerance, pancreatic morphology and insulin secretion. We examined whether only 
4 weeks of exercise early in life could reprogram these negative effects. Male
Sprague-Dawley rats consumed a HFD for 10 weeks before mating with chow-fed dams.
Female offspring remained sedentary or performed moderate intensity treadmill
exercise (5 days week-1 , 60 min day-1 , 20 m min-1 ) from 5 to 9 weeks of age.
Paternal HFD impaired (P < 0.05) adult offspring whole body insulin sensitivity
(i.p. insulin sensitivity test), as well as skeletal muscle ex vivo insulin
sensitivity and TBC1D4 phosphorylation. It also lowered β-cell mass and reduced
in vivo insulin secretion in response to an i.p. glucose tolerance test.
Early-life exercise in offspring reprogrammed the negative effects of a paternal 
HFD on whole body insulin sensitivity, skeletal muscle ex vivo insulin-stimulated
glucose uptake and TBC1D4 phosphorylation and also increased glucose transporter 
4 protein. However, early exercise did not normalize the reduced pancreatic
β-cell mass or insulin secretion. In conclusion, only 4 weeks of exercise early
in life in female rat offspring reprograms reductions in insulin sensitivity in
adulthood caused by a paternal HFD without affecting pancreatic β-cell mass or
insulin secretion.
EOF
The defective satiation signaling may contribute to the etiology of obesity. We
investigated how dietary modification during maternal (pregnancy and lactation)
and post-weaning affects obesity, insulin resistance (IR) and hypothalamic
appetite responses in offspring in adulthood. Pregnant female SD rats were
randomly allocated to either maternal high-fat diet (43% energy from fat) or
control diet (12% energy from fat) until the end of suckling. After weaning for
additional 4 weeks, half of the offsprings were continuously fed the same diet as
the dam (C-C and H-H groups); the remainder received the counterpart diet (C-H
and H-C groups). The long-term high-fat diet during maternal and post-weaning
period (H-H group) led to susceptibility to obesity and IR through the
significant increases of hypothalamic orexigenic genes compared to the maternal
and post-weaning control diet group (C-C group). In contrast, the hypothalamic
expression levels of anorexigenic genes, apolipoprotein E, leptin receptor, and
activated signal transducer and activator of transcription protein 3 were
significantly lower in H-H group with elevations in circulating insulin and
leptin and body fat mass. However, dietary changes after weaning (H-C and C-H
groups) partially modified these conditions. These results suggest that maternal 
and post-weaning diet conditions can potentially disrupt hypothalamic neuronal
signal irrelevantly, which is essential for leptin's regulation of energy
homeostasis and induce the risk of offspring to future metabolic disorders.
EOF
Pickle is consumed in high amount among Iranians. Pickle consumption may be
related to body mass index (BMI) and blood pressure (BP) but limited evidence
exist in this regard. The aim of current study was to determine the association
between pickle consumption and risk of overweight, central obesity and BP among
Isfahanian female youths. A cross-sectional study was conducted on 289 female
students aged 18-27 years randomly selected from students of Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. Diet was assessed by a validated and reliable
food-frequency questionnaire. Mean pickle consumption was 15.1 ± 2.2 g/day.
Individuals in the highest tertile of pickle consumption had a significantly
higher BMI, systolic and diastolic BP (p = 0.001, 0.03, and 0.03, respectively), 
whereas we did not observe significant association for waist circumference (p =
0.21). Total energy intake (p = 0.02) and consumption of carbohydrate (p = 0.01),
protein (p = 0.03), and fat (p = 0.05) in the upper tertile was higher than lower
tertiles. There was a significant association between pickle consumption and
obesity and BP among Iranian female youths. Further prospective studies are
needed to confirm this association.
EOF
The dual burden of malnutrition (obesity or a non-communicable disease coupled
with malnutrition) is prevalent in more than half of all malnourished households 
that reside in the US. Non-profit organizations should make a conscientious
effort to not serve products high in sugar and saturated fat, and low in fiber.
Instead, they should diligently serve nutrient-dense foods rich in produce, whole
grains and omega 3 fatty acids to minimize health disparities prevalent in LSES
households. Nonprofit organizations have the potential to decrease health
disparities nationally by feeding health sustaining products such as whole
grains, fresh produce and lean proteins. This commentary lists feasible options
for organizations to serve healthier options and reduce health disparities such
as implementing nutrition policies, capitalizing on donations and securing
partnerships.
EOF
Many risk factors related to the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) have been proposed, including the most well-known of diabetes and obesity
as well as periodontitis. As periodontal pathogenic bacteria produce endotoxins, 
periodontal treatment can result in endotoxemia. The aim of this study was to
investigate the effects of intravenous, sonicated Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg)
injection on glucose/lipid metabolism, liver steatosis, and gut microbiota in
mice. Endotoxemia was induced in C57BL/6J mice (8 weeks old) by intravenous
injection of sonicated Pg; Pg was deactivated but its endotoxin remained. The
mice were fed a high-fat diet and administered sonicated Pg (HFPg) or saline
(HFco) injections for 12 weeks. Liver steatosis, glucose metabolism, and gene
expression in the liver were evaluated. 16S rRNA gene sequencing with metagenome 
prediction was performed on the gut microbiota. Compared to HFco mice, HFPg mice 
exhibited impaired glucose tolerance and insulin resistance along with increased 
liver steatosis. Liver microarray analysis demonstrated that 1278 genes were
differentially expressed between HFco and HFPg mice. Gene set enrichment analysis
showed that fatty acid metabolism, hypoxia, and TNFα signaling via NFκB gene sets
were enriched in HFPg mice. Although sonicated Pg did not directly reach the gut,
it changed the gut microbiota and decreased bacterial diversity in HFPg mice.
Metagenome prediction in the gut microbiota showed enriched citrate cycle and
carbon fixation pathways in prokaryotes. Overall, intravenous injection of
sonicated Pg caused impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and liver
steatosis in mice fed high-fat diets. Thus, blood infusion of Pg contributes to
NAFLD and alters the gut microbiota.
EOF
Studies of nesfatin-1 in glucose metabolism have become a topic of interest
recently, however, the specific receptor for nesfatin-1 has not yet been
identified. Some studies hinted at a connection between nesfatin-1 and the
ghrelin receptor, growth hormone secretagogue receptor. Therefore, we aimed to
study the role of GHSR in the glycemic effects of nesfatin-1 as well as its
downstream pathways. We employed C57/BL6 mice (wild type and GHSR knockout mice) 
eating a normal chow diet and a high fat diet in this study, and the experimental
technique included western blot, real-time PCR, immunofluorescence and ELISA. We 
found that in mice fed a normal chow diet (NCD), nesfatin-1 improved glucose
tolerance, up-regulated AKT kinase (AKT) mRNA levels and phosphorylation and
GLUT4 membrane translocation in skeletal muscle. These effects were blocked by
co-injection of GHSR antagonist [D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 and were attenuated in GHSR
knockout mice. In mice fed high-fat diet (HFD), nesfatin-1 not only exerted the
effects observed in NCD mice, but also suppressed appetite and raised AKT levels 
in liver tissues that also required GHSR. Peripheral nesfatin-1 suppressed c-fos 
expression of GHSR immunoreactive neurons induced by fasting in hypothalamic
nuclei, indicating that nesfatin-1 inhibited the activation of central GHSR. We
concluded that the effects of nesfatin-1 on food intake and glucose metabolism
were GHSR-dependent, and that the glycemic effect was associated with AKT and
GLUT4. This study should stimulate further exploration of the nesfatin-1
receptor.
EOF
Purpose: Metformin and Houttuynia cordata are representative anti-diabetic
therapeutic agents in western and oriental medicinal fields, respectively. The
present study examined the therapeutic effects of houttuynia cordata extract
(HCE) and metformin in combination in a dysmetabolic mouse model. Methods:
Metabolic disorders were induced in C57BL/6J mice by high fat diet (HFD) for 14
weeks. Results: Combination of metformin and HCE significantly lowered body
weight, abdominal fat, perirenal fat, liver and kidney weights, but did not
change epididymal fat in HFD-fed animals. Metformin + HCE treatment markedly
attenuated the elevated serum levels of TG, TC, AST, ALT, and endotoxin and
restored the depleted HDL level. Both HCE and metformin + HCE treatment
ameliorated glucose tolerance and high level of fasting blood glucose in
association with AMPK activation. Moreover, treatment with HCE + metformin
dramatically suppressed inflammation in HFD-fed animals via inhibition of
proinflammatory cytokines (MCP-1 and IL-6) and LPS receptor (TLR4).
Histopathological findings showed that exposure of HFD-treated animals to
metformin + HCE ameliorated fatty liver, shrinkage of intestinal villi and
adipocytes enlargement. Furthermore, HCE and metformin + HCE treatments markedly 
modulated the abundance of gut Gram-negative bacteria, including Escherichia coli
and Bacteriodetes fragilis, but not universal Gram-positive bacteria.
Conclusions: Overall, HCE and metformin cooperatively exert their therapeutic
effects via modulation of gut microbiota, especially reduction of Gram-negative
bacteria, resulting in alleviation of endotoxemia.
EOF
Leptin is known to inhibit appetite and promote energy metabolism in vertebrates.
Leptin resistance (LR) commonly occurs in diet-induced obesity (DIO) in mammals. 
However, the roles of leptin in the energy homeostasis in DIO animals with LR
remain unclear. Here we first verified the high expression of leptin in
subcutaneous adipose tissue (SCAT) as in liver in Nile tilapia. Furthermore, we
produced two types of DIO Nile tilapia by using a high-carbohydrate diet (HCD) or
a high-fat diet (HFD), and confirmed the existence of LR in both models. Notably,
we found that HCD-DIO fish retained leptin action in the activation of lipid
metabolism and showed LR in glucose metabolism regulation, while this selective
leptin action between lipid and glucose metabolism was reversed in HFD-DIO fish. 
Fasting the fish for 1 week completely recovered leptin actions in the regulation
of lipid and glucose metabolism. Therefore, leptin may retain more of its
activities in animals with LR than previously believed. Evolutionally, this
selective regulation of leptin in nutrients metabolism could be an adaptive
mechanism in animals to store surplus calories when different types of food are
abundant.
EOF
Scope: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a severe microvascular complication of
diabetes. Previous clinical trials have shown that Compound Danshen Dripping Pill
(CDDP) improves DR symptoms. However, the mechanism involved remains unclear.
Procedures: Rats fed a high-fat diet and injected with streptozotocin (STZ) were 
used as an experimental type 2 diabetes rodent model. CDDP was administered to
two groups of diabetic rats at 0.2 and 0.4 g/kg/day via gastric gavage for 12
weeks. After the 12 weeks of treatment, retinal function was evaluated by
electroretinography (ERG). Histological staining and TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end
labeling (TUNEL) assays were also performed. Retinal genome expression was
determined by gene array. Results: We found that CDDP moderated ERG and
histological abnormalities in diabetic rats, independent of blood glucose level. 
A gene array showed that CDDP changed 262 genes significantly in the diabetic
retina. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis indicated
that differentially expressed genes in the CDDP-treated groups were involved
mainly in the apoptosis pathway. Moreover, CDDP reduced the number of
TUNEL-positive cells in the diabetic retinas. CDDP prevented the reduction in
Bcl-2 expression and the increase in BCL-2 associated X (Bax) and caspase-3
(Casp3) expression in diabetic rats. Conclusion: Our results suggest that CDDP
exerts its neuroprotective functions by inhibiting cell apoptosis in diabetic
rats.
EOF
This study investigated the molecular mechanism underlying the effect of dietary 
genistein (GEN) on fatty liver syndrome (FLS) in laying hens. Hens in the control
group (CG) were fed a high-energy and low-choline (HELC) diet to establish the
FLS model. The livers of the FLS hens were friable and swollen from hemorrhage.
Hepatic steatosis and inflammatory cell infiltration were present around the
liver blood vessels. Hens in the low-genistein (LGE) and high-genistein (he)
groups were fed GEN at 40 and 400 mg/kg doses, respectively, as supplements to
the HELC diet. GEN at 40 mg/kg significantly increased gonadotropin-releasing
hormone (GnRH) mRNA expression in the hypothalamus, the serum estrogen (E2)
level, and the laying rate, whereas 400 mg/kg of GEN decreased GnRH expression
and the laying rate without significantly affecting E2, suggesting that high-dose
GEN adversely affected the reproductive performance. Either high- or low-dose GEN
treatment could alleviate metabolic disorders and inflammatory responses in FLS
hens. GEN significantly decreased the serum ALT, creatinine, triglyceride (TG),
total cholesterol (TC), and free fatty acid (FFA) levels. Accordingly, the TG and
long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) levels, including long-chain saturated fatty acids
(LSFAs) and monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), and the n-6:n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acid (PUFA) ratio in the liver were reduced after the GEN treatments,
whereas the levels of C22:0, n-3 family fatty acids, C20:3n6, and C20:4n6 were
increased. These results indicated that dietary GEN downregulated the expression 
of genes related to fatty acid synthesis [sterol regulatory element-binding
protein 1 (SREBP1c), liver X receptor alpha (LXRα), fatty acid synthase (FAS),
and acetyl coenzyme A synthetase (ACC)] and the fatty acid transporter (FAT).
Furthermore, GEN treatments upregulated the transcription of genes related to
fatty acid β-oxidation [peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)α,
PPARδ, ACOT8, ACAD8, and ACADs] in the liver and reduced PPARγ and AFABP
expression in abdominal fat. Dietary GEN alleviated inflammatory cell
infiltration in the livers of FLS hens and downregulated TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β
expression. Moreover, GEN treatment increased SOD activity and decreased
malondialdehyde activity in the liver. In conclusion, GEN supplementation in the 
feed inhibited fatty acid synthesis and enhanced β-oxidation in the liver through
the PPAR-ACAD/ACOT and PPAR-LXRα-SREBP1c-ACC/FAS/FAT pathways. Dietary GEN
alleviated metabolic disorder and inflammation in the FLS hens by improving the
antioxidant capacity and fatty acid profile.
EOF
Background: Impaired capillary growth (angiogenesis) in skeletal muscle and
adipose tissue contributes to the development of metabolic disorders in obese
males. This association remains unexplored in females, despite mounting evidence 
that endothelial cells have sex-specific transcriptional profiles. Therefore,
herein we assessed whether males and females show distinct angiogenic capacities 
in response to diet-induced obesity. Methods: Age-matched male and female mice
were fed normal chow or high-fat obesogenic diets for 16 weeks. At the end of
diet period, systemic glucose disposal was assessed as well as insulin
sensitivity of skeletal muscle and visceral adipose tissue. Capillary content and
the expression of angiogenic regulators were also evaluated in these tissues.
Results: When placed on a high-fat diet, female mice gained less weight than
males and showed a metabolic phenotype similar to NC-fed mice, contrasting with
the impaired whole-body glucose metabolism observed in high-fat-fed males.
However, high-fat-feeding elevated serum lipid levels similarly in male and
female mice. Although skeletal muscle of high-fat-fed female mice had higher
insulin sensitivity than male counterparts, no sex difference was detected in
muscle capillarization. Metabolic functions of perigonadal white adipose tissue
(pgWAT) were retained in high-fat-fed females, as evidenced by smaller adipocytes
with preserved insulin sensitivity, greater responsiveness to isoproterenol,
higher expression of Adiponectin and a lower ratio of Leptin:Adiponectin mRNA. An
enhanced browning phenotype was detected in HF-fed female adipocytes with
upregulation of Ucp1 expression. PgWAT from high-fat-fed females also showed
augmented capillary number and expression of endothelial cell markers, which was 
associated with elevated mRNA levels of pro-angiogenic mediators, including
vascular endothelial growth factor A (Vegfa) and its receptor (Vegfr2), the Notch
ligand Jagged-1 (Jag1) and Angiopoietin-2 (Angpt2). Conclusion: Taken together,
our findings provide novel evidence that visceral adipose tissue of female mice
display greater levels of pro-angiogenic factors and vascularity than males in
response to high-fat diet. This phenotype is associated with preserved metabolic 
homeostasis at both tissue and systemic levels. Our study discloses that a
thus-far-unappreciated sex-specific difference in the regulation of adipose
angiogenesis may contribute to an individual's susceptibility to developing
adipose dysfunction and obesity-related metabolic disturbances
EOF
The contributions of maternal diet and obesity in shaping offspring microbiome
remain unclear. Here we employed a mouse model of maternal diet-induced obesity
via high-fat diet feeding (HFD, 45% fat calories) for 12 wk prior to conception
on offspring gut microbial ecology. Male and female offspring were provided
access to control or HFD from weaning until 17 wk of age. Maternal HFD-associated
programming was sexually dimorphic, with male offspring from HFD dams showing
hyper-responsive weight gain to postnatal HFD. Likewise, microbiome analysis of
offspring cecal contents showed differences in α-diversity, β-diversity and
higher Firmicutes in male compared to female mice. Weight gain in offspring was
significantly associated with abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Clostridiaceae
families and Adlercreutzia, Coprococcus and Lactococcus genera. Sex differences
in metagenomic pathways relating to lipid metabolism, bile acid biosynthesis and 
immune response were also observed. HFD-fed male offspring from HFD dams also
showed worse hepatic pathology, increased pro-inflammatory cytokines, altered
expression of bile acid regulators (Cyp7a1, Cyp8b1 and Cyp39a1) and serum bile
acid concentrations. These findings suggest that maternal HFD alters gut
microbiota composition and weight gain of offspring in a sexually dimorphic
manner, coincident with fatty liver and a pro-inflammatory state in male
offspring.
EOF
